LICENSE

vSphere Integrated Containers Engine version 0.7.0

Copyright © 2016 VMware, Inc.  All rights reserved.

This product is licensed to you under the Apache License version 2.0 (the
“License”).  You may not use this product except in compliance with the
License.

			   Apache License Version 2.0, January 2004
http://www.apache.org/licenses/

TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION

1. Definitions.

"License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction, and
distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.

"Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by the
copyright owner that is granting the License.

"Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all other
entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common control with
that entity. For the purposes of this definition, "control" means (i) the
power, direct or indirect, to cause the direction or management of such
entity, whether by contract or otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent
(50%) or more of the outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of such
entity.

"You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity exercising
permissions granted by this License.

"Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications,
including but not limited to software source code, documentation source, and
configuration files.

"Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical transformation or
translation of a Source form, including but not limited to compiled object
code, generated documentation, and conversions to other media types.

"Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or Object form,
made available under the License, as indicated by a copyright notice that is
included in or attached to the work (an example is provided in the Appendix
below).

"Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object form, that
is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the editorial revisions,
annotations, elaborations, or other modifications represent, as a whole, an
original work of authorship. For the purposes of this License, Derivative
Works shall not include works that remain separable from, or merely link (or
bind by name) to the interfaces of, the Work and Derivative Works thereof.

"Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including the original
version of the Work and any modifications or additions to that Work or
Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally submitted to Licensor for
inclusion in the Work by the copyright owner or by an individual or Legal
Entity authorized to submit on behalf of the copyright owner. For the purposes
of this definition, "submitted" means any form of electronic, verbal, or
written communication sent to the Licensor or its representatives, including
but not limited to communication on electronic mailing lists, source code
control systems, and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf
of, the Licensor for the purpose of discussing and improving the Work, but
excluding communication that is conspicuously marked or otherwise designated
in writing by the copyright owner as "Not a Contribution."

"Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity on behalf
of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and subsequently
incorporated within the Work.

2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this
License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual, worldwide,
non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable copyright license to
reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of, publicly display, publicly perform,
sublicense, and distribute the Work and such Derivative Works in Source or
Object form.

3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this
License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual, worldwide,
non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable (except as stated in this
section) patent license to make, have made, use, offer to sell, sell, import,
and otherwise transfer the Work, where such license applies only to those
patent claims licensable by such Contributor that are necessarily infringed by
their Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their Contribution(s) with
the Work to which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You institute patent
litigation against any entity (including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a
lawsuit) alleging that the Work or a Contribution incorporated within the Work
constitutes direct or contributory patent infringement, then any patent
licenses granted to You under this License for that Work shall terminate as of
the date such litigation is filed.

4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the Work or
Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without modifications, and in
Source or Object form, provided that You meet the following conditions:

(a) You must give any other recipients of the Work or Derivative Works a copy
of this License; and

(b) You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices stating that
You changed the files; and

(c) You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works that You
distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and attribution notices from the
Source form of the Work, excluding those notices that do not pertain to any
part of the Derivative Works; and

(d) If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its distribution,
then any Derivative Works that You distribute must include a readable copy of
the attribution notices contained within such NOTICE file, excluding those
notices that do not pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least
one of the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed as part of
the Derivative Works; within the Source form or documentation, if provided
along with the Derivative Works; or, within a display generated by the
Derivative Works, if and wherever such third-party notices normally appear.
The contents of the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and do not
modify the License. You may add Your own attribution notices within Derivative
Works that You distribute, alongside or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from
the Work, provided that such additional attribution notices cannot be
construed as modifying the License.

You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and may provide
additional or different license terms and conditions for use, reproduction, or
distribution of Your modifications, or for any such Derivative Works as a
whole, provided Your use, reproduction, and distribution of the Work otherwise
complies with the conditions stated in this License.

5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise, any
Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work by You to the
Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of this License, without any
additional terms or conditions.  Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein
shall supersede or modify the terms of any separate license agreement you may
have executed with Licensor regarding such Contributions.

6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade names,
trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor, except as
required for reasonable and customary use in describing the origin of the Work
and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.

7. Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in
writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each Contributor provides its
Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, either express or implied, including, without limitation, any warranties
or conditions of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely responsible for determining the
appropriateness of using or redistributing the Work and assume any risks
associated with Your exercise of permissions under this License.

8. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory, whether in
tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise, unless required by
applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly negligent acts) or agreed to in
writing, shall any Contributor be liable to You for damages, including any
direct, indirect, special, incidental, or consequential damages of any
character arising as a result of this License or out of the use or inability
to use the Work (including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill,
work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and all other
commercial damages or losses), even if such Contributor has been advised of
the possibility of such damages.

9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing the Work
or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer, and charge a fee for,
acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity, or other liability obligations
and/or rights consistent with this License. However, in accepting such
obligations, You may act only on Your own behalf and on Your sole
responsibility, not on behalf of any other Contributor, and only if You agree
to indemnify, defend, and hold each Contributor harmless for any liability
incurred by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor by reason of your
accepting any such warranty or additional liability.

END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

APPENDIX: How to apply the Apache License to your work.

To apply the Apache License to your work, attach the following boilerplate
notice, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own
identifying information. (Don't include the brackets!)  The text should be
enclosed in the appropriate comment syntax for the file format. We also
recommend that a file or class name and description of purpose be included on
the same "printed page" as the copyright notice for easier identification
within third-party archives.

Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not
use this file except in compliance with the License.  You may obtain a copy of
the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  See the
License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under
the License.

======================================================================

vSphere Integrated Containers Engine version 0.7.0

vSphere Integrated Containers Engine version 0.5.5 includes a number of
components with separate copyright notices and license terms.  This product
does not necessarily use all the open source components referred to below.
Your use of the source code for these components is subject to the terms and
conditions of the following licenses.

SECTION 1: BSD-STYLE, MIT-STYLE, OR SIMILAR STYLE LICENSES
   >>> airbrake gobrake.v2-c9d51adc624b5cc4c1bf8de730a09af4878ffe2d
   >>> assertions-287b4346dc4e71a038c346375a9d572453bc469b
   >>> context-07b51741c1d6423d4a6abab1c49940ec09cb1aaf denco
   >>> -9af2ba0e24214bac003821f4a501b131b2e04c75
   >>> dhcp4-f0e4d29ff0231dce36e250b2ed9ff08412584bca gemnasium
   >>> logrus-airbrake-hook.v2-
       31e6fd4bd5a98d8ee7673d24bc54ec73c31810dd
   >>> gls -8ddce2a84170772b95dd5d576c48d517b22cac63 go-1.7.0
   >>> go-ansiterm-70b2c90b260171e829f1ebd7c17f600c11858dbe
   >>> go-check-4f90aeace3a26ad7021961c297b22c42160c7b25 go-difflib
   >>> -792786c7400a136282c1664665ae0a8db921c6c2 go-flags
   >>> -97448c91aac742cbca3d020b3e769013a420a06f
   >>> go-httpclient-31f0106b4474f14bc441575c19d3a5fa21aa1f6c
   >>> go-patricia-d87fea6fbcb44d59ff7dacbbcc347c66fca67724 go-spew
   >>> -5215b55f46b2b919f50a1df0eaa5886afe4e3b3d
   >>> golang/lint-c7bacac2b21ca01afa1dee0acf64df3ce047c28f govalidator
   >>> -9699ab6b38bee2e02cd3fe8b99ecf67665395c96
   >>> graceful-d7d7a205e779a4738d38eda0671fff8bfc965f14
   >>> gvt-02e2422ab1f16e3872045e4117af370c5c10b24c inflect -8961c3750a47
   >>> logrus-4b6ea7319e214d98c938f12692336f7ca9348d6b negroni
   >>> -c7477ad8e330bef55bf1ebe300cf8aa67c492d1b
   >>> profile-8a808a6967b79da66deacfe508b26d398a69518f
   >>> pty-f7ee69f31298ecbe5d2b349c711e2547a617d398
   >>> purell-d69616f51cdfcd7514d6a380847a152dfc2a749d
   >>> serial-edb66533729585748de3d69af96aa8c2deeb8aac
   >>> siphash-6d8617816bb5d8268011ffbfb8720f17ce9af63c smartystreets
   >>> goconvey-bf58a9a1291224109919756b4dcc469c670cc7e4 stretchr
   >>> objx-1a9d0bb9f541897e62256577b352fdbc1fb4fd94 stretchr
   >>> testify-9f9027faeb0dad515336ed2f28317f9f8f527ab4
   >>> tail-a30252cb686a21eb2d0b98132633053ec2f7f1e5
   >>> tomb.v1-dd632973f1e7218eb1089048e0798ec9ae7dceb8
   >>> urfave/cli-fa949b48f384d8916e1ca94880d665deaa1105c2
   >>> urfave/cli-fa949b48f384d8916e1ca94880d665deaa1105c2 urlesc
   >>> -5fa9ff0392746aeae1c4b37fcc42c65afa7a9587
   >>> uuid-f3f4b54b2fabcf1f11dcc939025bb0c109b00ed8

SECTION 2: Apache License, V2.0
   >>> coreos/etcd-a4624666fec6b9f82400ea873d5c3d2f968fb737 docker
   >>> distribution-2.5.1 docker-1.11.0
   >>> gas-37205e9afa56150a634a1d0d19347446e9b27f17
   >>> go-swagger-c58f48e81158a4394adffc43b59c07fce1993f19
   >>> go-systemd-7b2428fec40033549c68f54e26e89e7ca9a9ce31 govmomi-v0.9.0
   >>> groupcache/lru-4eab30f13db9d8b25c752e99d1583628ac2fa422
   >>> netlink-e73bad418fd727ed3a02830b1af1ad0283a1de6c
   >>> shakers-24d7f1d6a71aa5d9cbe7390e4afb66b7eef9e1b3
   >>> sigma/bdoor-b9c82b7b3c0b1e57ec2f8809b6219fbe6a58d92a

SECTION 3: Common Development and Distribution License, V1.0
   >>> vmw-guestinfo-e3da01aaaf522290dc2ec74cb2ec258e2240564b

APPENDIX. Standard License Files

   >>> Common Development and Distribution License, V1.0

   >>> Creative Commons Attribution License, V3.0

   >>> Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike, V4.0 International Public 
       License

   >>> Mozilla Public License, V2.0

   >>> GNU General Public License, V1.0

   >>> GNU General Public License, V2.0

   >>> GNU General Public License, V3.0

   >>> GNU Library General Public License, V2.0

   >>> GNU Lesser General Public License, V2.1

   >>> GNU Lesser General Public License, V3.0

   >>> GNU Affero General Public License V3.0


------ SECTION 1:  BSD-STYLE, MIT-STYLE, OR SIMILAR STYLE LICENSES ------

BSD-STYLE, MIT-STYLE, OR SIMILAR STYLE LICENSES are applicable to the
following component(s).

>>> airbrake gobrake.v2-c9d51adc624b5cc4c1bf8de730a09af4878ffe2d

Copyright (c) 2014 The Gobrake Authors. All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer.  Redistributions in binary
form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and
the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
with the distribution.  Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

>>> assertions-287b4346dc4e71a038c346375a9d572453bc469b

Copyright (c) 2015 SmartyStreets, LLC

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

NOTE: Various optional and subordinate components carry their own licensing
requirements and restrictions.  Use of those components is subject to the
terms and conditions outlined the respective license of each component.

ADDITIONAL LICENSE INFORMATION:

>   BSD (Style)

assertions-master.zip\assertions-master\internal\go-render\LICENSE

Copyright (c) 2015 The Chromium Authors. All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer.  Redistributions in binary
form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and
the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
with the distribution.  Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

>   Apache 2.0

assertions-master.zip\assertions-master\internal\oglematchers\all_of.go

Copyright 2011 Aaron Jacobs. All Rights Reserved.  Author:
aaronjjacobs@gmail.com (Aaron Jacobs)

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not
use this file except in compliance with the License.  You may obtain a copy of
the License at

http:www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  See the
License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under
the License.

>>> context-07b51741c1d6423d4a6abab1c49940ec09cb1aaf

Copyright (c) 2009 The Go Authors. All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met: 

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright 
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above 
copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution. 
* Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its 
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
software without specific prior written permission. 

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

>>> denco -9af2ba0e24214bac003821f4a501b131b2e04c75

Copyright (c) 2014 Naoya Inada <naoina@kuune.org>

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

>>> dhcp4-f0e4d29ff0231dce36e250b2ed9ff08412584bca

Copyright (c) 2013 Skagerrak Software Limited. All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
   * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
   * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
   * Neither the name of Skagerrak Software Limited nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

>>> gemnasium logrus-airbrake-hook.v2-31e6fd4bd5a98d8ee7673d24bc54ec73c31810dd

The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2015 Gemnasium

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

>>> gls -8ddce2a84170772b95dd5d576c48d517b22cac63

Copyright (c) 2013, Space Monkey, Inc.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

>>> go-1.7.0

Copyright (c) 2009 The Go Authors. All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
   * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
   * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
   * Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

Additional IP Rights Grant (Patents)

"This implementation" means the copyrightable works distributed by Google as
part of the Go project.

Google hereby grants to You a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge,
royalty-free, irrevocable (except as stated in this section) patent license to
make, have made, use, offer to sell, sell, import, transfer and otherwise run,
modify and propagate the contents of this implementation of Go, where such
license applies only to those patent claims, both currently owned or
controlled by Google and acquired in the future, licensable by Google that are
necessarily infringed by this implementation of Go.  This grant does not
include claims that would be infringed only as a consequence of further
modification of this implementation.  If you or your agent or exclusive
licensee institute or order or agree to the institution of patent litigation
against any entity (including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit)
alleging that this implementation of Go or any code incorporated within this
implementation of Go constitutes direct or contributory patent infringement,
or inducement of patent infringement, then any patent rights granted to you
under this License for this implementation of Go shall terminate as of the
date such litigation is filed.

ADDITIONAL LICENSE INFORMATION: 

> CC-Attribution V3.0
golang-1.7_1.7.orig.tar.gz\golang-1.7_1.7.orig.tar\go\doc\gopher\README

The Go gopher was designed by Renee French. (http://reneefrench.blogspot.com/)
The design is licensed under the Creative Commons 3.0 Attributions license.
Read this article for more details: https://blog.golang.org/gopher

>>> go-ansiterm-70b2c90b260171e829f1ebd7c17f600c11858dbe

The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2015 Microsoft Corporation

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

>>> go-check-4f90aeace3a26ad7021961c297b22c42160c7b25

Gocheck - A rich testing framework for Go Copyright (c) 2010-2013 Gustavo
Niemeyer <gustavo@niemeyer.net> All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer.  2. Redistributions in binary
form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and
the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
with the distribution.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES;LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

>>> go-difflib -792786c7400a136282c1664665ae0a8db921c6c2

Copyright (c) 2013, Patrick Mezard All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer.  Redistributions in binary
form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and
the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
with the distribution.  The names of its contributors may not be used to
endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior
written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

>>> go-flags -97448c91aac742cbca3d020b3e769013a420a06f

Copyright (c) 2012 Jesse van den Kieboom. All rights reserved.  Redistribution
and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are
permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer.  Redistributions in binary
form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and
the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
with the distribution.  Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

>>> go-httpclient-31f0106b4474f14bc441575c19d3a5fa21aa1f6c

The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2012 Matt Reiferson

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

>>> go-patricia-d87fea6fbcb44d59ff7dacbbcc347c66fca67724

The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2014 The AUTHORS

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

>>> go-spew -5215b55f46b2b919f50a1df0eaa5886afe4e3b3d

Copyright (c) 2012-2013 Dave Collins <dave@davec.name>

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any purpose
with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright
notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH
REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT,
INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM
LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR
OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

>>> golang/lint-c7bacac2b21ca01afa1dee0acf64df3ce047c28f

Copyright (c) 2013 The Go Authors. All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
* Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.


>>> govalidator -9699ab6b38bee2e02cd3fe8b99ecf67665395c96

The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2014 Alex Saskevich

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

>>> graceful-d7d7a205e779a4738d38eda0671fff8bfc965f14

The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2014 Tyler Bunnell

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

>>> gvt-02e2422ab1f16e3872045e4117af370c5c10b24c

The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2015 constabulary Copyright (c) 2015 Filippo Valsorda

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

ADDITIONAL LICENSE INFORMATION:

> BSD-2

gvt-master.zip\gvt-master\fileutils\path_test.go

Copyright 2009 The Go Authors. All rights reserved.  Use of this source code
is governed by a BSD-style license that can be found in the LICENSE file.

>>> inflect -8961c3750a47

Copyright (c) 2011 Chris Farmiloe

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

>>> logrus-4b6ea7319e214d98c938f12692336f7ca9348d6b

The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2014 Simon Eskildsen

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

>>> negroni -c7477ad8e330bef55bf1ebe300cf8aa67c492d1b

The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2014 Jeremy Saenz

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

>>> profile-8a808a6967b79da66deacfe508b26d398a69518f

Copyright (c) 2013 Dave Cheney. All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

>>> pty-f7ee69f31298ecbe5d2b349c711e2547a617d398

Copyright (c) 2011 Keith Rarick

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

>>> purell-d69616f51cdfcd7514d6a380847a152dfc2a749d

Copyright (c) 2012, Martin Angers All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
* list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
* this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
* and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

* Neither the name of the author nor the names of its contributors may be used
* to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific
* prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

>>> serial-edb66533729585748de3d69af96aa8c2deeb8aac

Copyright (c) 2009 The Go Authors. All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
* Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

>>> siphash-6d8617816bb5d8268011ffbfb8720f17ce9af63c

Written in 2012 by Dmitry Chestnykh.

To the extent possible under law, the author have dedicated all copyright and
related and neighboring rights to this software to the public domain
worldwide. This software is distributed without any warranty.
http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/

>>> smartystreets goconvey-bf58a9a1291224109919756b4dcc469c670cc7e4

Copyright (c) 2014 SmartyStreets, LLC

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

NOTE: Various optional and subordinate components carry their own licensing
requirements and restrictions.  Use of those components is subject to the
terms and conditions outlined the respective license of each component.

ADDITIONAL LICENSE INFORMATION:

> Apache 2.0

goconvey-master.zip\goconvey-master\web\client\resources\js\lib\diff_match_patch.js

Copyright 2006 Google Inc.  http://code.google.com/p/google-diff-match-patch/

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not
use this file except in compliance with the License.  You may obtain a copy of
the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  See the
License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under
the License.

> SIL Open Font License, Version 1.1

goconvey-master.zip\goconvey-master\web\client\resources\fonts\Orbitron\OFL.txt

Copyright (c) 2009, Matt McInerney (matt@pixelspread.com), with Reserved Font
Name Orbitron.  This Font Software is licensed under the SIL Open Font
License, Version 1.1.  This license is copied below, and is also available
with a FAQ at: http://scripts.sil.org/OFL

----------------------------------------------------------- SIL OPEN FONT
LICENSE Version 1.1 - 26 February 2007
-----------------------------------------------------------

PREAMBLE The goals of the Open Font License (OFL) are to stimulate worldwide
development of collaborative font projects, to support the font creation
efforts of academic and linguistic communities, and to provide a free and open
framework in which fonts may be shared and improved in partnership with
others.

The OFL allows the licensed fonts to be used, studied, modified and
redistributed freely as long as they are not sold by themselves. The fonts,
including any derivative works, can be bundled, embedded, redistributed and/or
sold with any software provided that any reserved names are not used by
derivative works. The fonts and derivatives, however, cannot be released under
any other type of license. The requirement for fonts to remain under this
license does not apply to any document created using the fonts or their
derivatives.

DEFINITIONS "Font Software" refers to the set of files released by the
Copyright Holder(s) under this license and clearly marked as such. This may
include source files, build scripts and documentation.

"Reserved Font Name" refers to any names specified as such after the copyright
statement(s).

"Original Version" refers to the collection of Font Software components as
distributed by the Copyright Holder(s).

"Modified Version" refers to any derivative made by adding to, deleting, or
substituting -- in part or in whole -- any of the components of the Original
Version, by changing formats or by porting the Font Software to a new
environment.

"Author" refers to any designer, engineer, programmer, technical writer or
other person who contributed to the Font Software.

PERMISSION & CONDITIONS Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any
person obtaining a copy of the Font Software, to use, study, copy, merge,
embed, modify, redistribute, and sell modified and unmodified copies of the
Font Software, subject to the following conditions:

1) Neither the Font Software nor any of its individual components, in Original
or Modified Versions, may be sold by itself.

2) Original or Modified Versions of the Font Software may be bundled,
redistributed and/or sold with any software, provided that each copy contains
the above copyright notice and this license. These can be included either as
stand-alone text files, human-readable headers or in the appropriate
machine-readable metadata fields within text or binary files as long as those
fields can be easily viewed by the user.

3) No Modified Version of the Font Software may use the Reserved Font Name(s)
unless explicit written permission is granted by the corresponding Copyright
Holder. This restriction only applies to the primary font name as presented to
the users.

4) The name(s) of the Copyright Holder(s) or the Author(s) of the Font
Software shall not be used to promote, endorse or advertise any Modified
Version, except to acknowledge the contribution(s) of the Copyright Holder(s)
and the Author(s) or with their explicit written permission.

5) The Font Software, modified or unmodified, in part or in whole, must be
distributed entirely under this license, and must not be distributed under any
other license. The requirement for fonts to remain under this license does not
apply to any document created using the Font Software.

TERMINATION This license becomes null and void if any of the above conditions
are not met.

DISCLAIMER THE FONT SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT OF
COPYRIGHT, PATENT, TRADEMARK, OR OTHER RIGHT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
HOLDER BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, INCLUDING ANY
GENERAL, SPECIAL, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, WHETHER IN
AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF THE USE OR
INABILITY TO USE THE FONT SOFTWARE OR FROM OTHER DEALINGS IN THE FONT
SOFTWARE.

>>> stretchr objx-1a9d0bb9f541897e62256577b352fdbc1fb4fd94

objx - by Mat Ryer and Tyler Bunnell

The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2014 Stretchr, Inc.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

>>> stretchr testify-9f9027faeb0dad515336ed2f28317f9f8f527ab4

Copyright (c) 2012 - 2013 Mat Ryer and Tyler Bunnell

Please consider promoting this project if you find it useful.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

ADDITIONAL LICENSE INFORMATION:

>BSD

testify-master.zip\testify-master\vendor\github.com\pmezard\go-difflib\LICENSE

Copyright (c) 2013, Patrick Mezard All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer.  Redistributions in binary
form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and
the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
with the distribution.  The names of its contributors may not be used to
endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior
written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

>>> tail-a30252cb686a21eb2d0b98132633053ec2f7f1e5

The MIT License (MIT)

 Copyright 2015 Hewlett Packard Enterprise Development LP Copyright (c) 2014
ActiveState

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions: The above copyright
notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or
substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

ADDITIONAL LICENSE INFORMATION:

> BSD-3

github.com/hpcloud/tail/vendor/gopkg.in/fsnotify.va/LICENSE

Copyright (c) 2012 The Go Authors. All rights reserved.  Copyright (c) 2012
fsnotify Authors. All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
   * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
   * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
   * Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

> BSD-3

github.com/hpcloud/tail/vendor/gopkg.in/tomb.v1/LICENSE

Copyright (c) 2010-2011 - Gustavo Niemeyer <gustavo@niemeyer.net>

All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
    * this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.  Redistributions
    * in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of
    * conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or
    * other materials provided with the distribution.  Neither the name of the
    * copyright holder nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

>>> tomb.v1-dd632973f1e7218eb1089048e0798ec9ae7dceb8

Copyright (c) 2010-2011 - Gustavo Niemeyer <gustavo@niemeyer.net>

All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
    * this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.  Redistributions
    * in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of
    * conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or
    * other materials provided with the distribution.  Neither the name of the
    * copyright holder nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

>>> urfave/cli-fa949b48f384d8916e1ca94880d665deaa1105c2

Copyright (C) 2013 Jeremy Saenz All Rights Reserved.

MIT LICENSE

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

>>> urfave/cli-fa949b48f384d8916e1ca94880d665deaa1105c2

Copyright (C) 2013 Jeremy Saenz All Rights Reserved.

MIT LICENSE

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

>>> urlesc -5fa9ff0392746aeae1c4b37fcc42c65afa7a9587

Copyright (c) 2012 The Go Authors. All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
* Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

ADDITIONAL LICENSE INFORMATION:

>MIT

urlesc-master.zip\urlesc-master\README.md

License: MIT

>>> uuid-f3f4b54b2fabcf1f11dcc939025bb0c109b00ed8

Copyright (c) 2009,2014 Google Inc. All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
   * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
   * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
   * Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

------------------- SECTION 2: Apache License, V2.0 -----------------

Apache License, V2.0 is applicable to the following component(s).

>>> coreos/etcd-a4624666fec6b9f82400ea873d5c3d2f968fb737

CoreOS Project Copyright 2014 CoreOS, Inc

This product includes software developed at CoreOS, Inc.
(http://www.coreos.com/).  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
"License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http:www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  See the
License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under
the License.

ADDITIONAL LICENSE INFORMATION:

>MIT Style

etcd-master.zip\etcd-master\DCO

Developer Certificate of Origin Version 1.1

Copyright (C) 2004, 2006 The Linux Foundation and its contributors.  660 York
Street, Suite 102, San Francisco, CA 94110 USA

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.

Developer's Certificate of Origin 1.1

By making a contribution to this project, I certify that:

(a) The contribution was created in whole or in part by me and I have the
right to submit it under the open source license indicated in the file; or

(b) The contribution is based upon previous work that, to the best of my
knowledge, is covered under an appropriate open source license and I have the
right under that license to submit that work with modifications, whether
created in whole or in part by me, under the same open source license (unless
I am permitted to submit under a different license), as indicated in the file;
or

(c) The contribution was provided directly to me by some other person who
certified (a), (b) or (c) and I have not modified it.

(d) I understand and agree that this project and the contribution are public
and that a record of the contribution (including all personal information I
submit with it, including my sign-off) is maintained indefinitely and may be
redistributed consistent with this project or the open source license(s)
involved.

>BSD

etcd-master.zip\etcd-master\cmd\vendor\bitbucket.org\ww\goautoneg\autoneg.go

Copyright (c) 2011, Open Knowledge Foundation Ltd.  All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or
other materials provided with the distribution.

Neither the name of the Open Knowledge Foundation Ltd. nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

>MIT

etcd-master.zip\etcd-master\cmd\vendor\github.com\boltdb\bolt\LICENSE

The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2013 Ben Johnson

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

>BSD

etcd-master.zip\etcd-master\cmd\vendor\golang.org\x\crypto\LICENSE

Copyright (c) 2009 The Go Authors. All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
* Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
Additional IP Rights Grant (Patents)

"This implementation" means the copyrightable works distributed by Google as
part of the Go project.

Google hereby grants to You a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge,
royalty-free, irrevocable (except as stated in this section) patent license to
make, have made, use, offer to sell, sell, import, transfer and otherwise run,
modify and propagate the contents of this implementation of Go, where such
license applies only to those patent claims, both currently owned or
controlled by Google and acquired in the future, licensable by Google that are
necessarily infringed by this implementation of Go.  This grant does not
include claims that would be infringed only as a consequence of further
modification of this implementation.  If you or your agent or exclusive
licensee institute or order or agree to the institution of patent litigation
against any entity (including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit)
alleging that this implementation of Go or any code incorporated within this
implementation of Go constitutes direct or contributory patent infringement,
or inducement of patent infringement, then any patent rights granted to you
under this License for this implementation of Go shall terminate as of the
date such litigation is filed.

>LGPL 3.0

 [VMware does not distribute the subcomponent "yaml.v2"]

etcd-master.zip\etcd-master\cmd\vendor\gopkg.in\yaml.v2\LICENSE

Copyright (c) 2011-2014 - Canonical Inc.

This software is licensed under the LGPLv3, included below.

As a special exception to the GNU Lesser General Public License version 3
("LGPL3"), the copyright holders of this Library give you permission to convey
to a third party a Combined Work that links statically or dynamically to this
Library without providing any Minimal Corresponding Source or Minimal
Application Code as set out in 4d or providing the installation information
set out in section 4e, provided that you comply with the other provisions of
LGPL3 and provided that you meet, for the Application the terms and conditions
of the license(s) which apply to the Application.

Except as stated in this special exception, the provisions of LGPL3 will
continue to comply in full to this Library. If you modify this Library, you
may apply this exception to your version of this Library, but you are not
obliged to do so. If you do not wish to do so, delete this exception statement
from your version. This exception does not (and cannot) modify any license
terms which apply to the Application, with which you must still comply.

>>> docker distribution-2.5.1

Copyright 2014 Gary Burd

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"): you may not
use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of
the License at

http:www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under
the License.

ADDITIONAL LICENSE INFORMATION:

>MIT

distribution-2.5.1-rc.1.tar.gz\distribution-2.5.1-rc.1.tar\distribution-2.5.1-rc.1\vendor\github.com\bugsnag\bugsnag-go\LICENSE.txt

Copyright (c) 2014 Bugsnag

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

>MIT Style

distribution-2.5.1-rc.1.tar.gz\distribution-2.5.1-rc.1.tar\distribution-2.5.1-rc.1\vendor\github.com\bugsnag\osext\LICENSE

Copyright (c) 2012 Daniel Theophanes

This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied warranty. In
no event will the authors be held liable for any damages arising from the use
of this software.

Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose,
including commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it freely,
subject to the following restrictions:

1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not claim
that you wrote the original software. If you use this software in a product,
an acknowledgment in the product documentation would be appreciated but is not
required.

2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be
misrepresented as being the original software.

3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution.

>BSD 3-Clause

distribution-2.5.1-rc.1.tar.gz\distribution-2.5.1-rc.1.tar\distribution-2.5.1-rc.1\vendor\github.com\golang\protobuf\LICENSE

Go support for Protocol Buffers - Google's data interchange format

Copyright 2010 The Go Authors.  All rights reserved.
https://github.com/golang/protobuf

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
* Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

PATENTS:

Additional IP Rights Grant (Patents)

"This implementation" means the copyrightable works distributed by Google as
part of the Go project.

Google hereby grants to You a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge,
royalty-free, irrevocable (except as stated in this section) patent license to
make, have made, use, offer to sell, sell, import, transfer and otherwise run,
modify and propagate the contents of this implementation of Go, where such
license applies only to those patent claims, both currently owned or
controlled by Google and acquired in the future, licensable by Google that are
necessarily infringed by this implementation of Go.  This grant does not
include claims that would be infringed only as a consequence of further
modification of this implementation.  If you or your agent or exclusive
licensee institute or order or agree to the institution of patent litigation
against any entity (including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit)
alleging that this implementation of Go or any code incorporated within this
implementation of Go constitutes direct or contributory patent infringement,
or inducement of patent infringement, then any patent rights granted to you
under this License for this implementation of Go shall terminate as of the
date such litigation is filed.

> BSD 2-Clause

distribution-2.5.1-rc.1.tar.gz\distribution-2.5.1-rc.1.tar\distribution-2.5.1-rc.1\vendor\gopkg.in\check.v1\LICENSE

Gocheck - A rich testing framework for Go

Copyright (c) 2010-2013 Gustavo Niemeyer <gustavo@niemeyer.net>

All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer.  2. Redistributions in binary
form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and
the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
with the distribution.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

>LGPL 3.0

[VMware does not distribute the subpackage "vendor\gopkg.in\yaml.v2"]

distribution-2.5.1-rc.1.tar.gz\distribution-2.5.1-rc.1.tar\distribution-2.5.1-rc.1\vendor\gopkg.in\yaml.v2\LICENSE

Copyright (c) 2011-2014 - Canonical Inc.

This software is licensed under the LGPLv3, included below.

As a special exception to the GNU Lesser General Public License version 3
("LGPL3"), the copyright holders of this Library give you permission to convey
to a third party a Combined Work that links statically or dynamically to this
Library without providing any Minimal Corresponding Source or Minimal
Application Code as set out in 4d or providing the installation information
set out in section 4e, provided that you comply with the other provisions of
LGPL3 and provided that you meet, for the Application the terms and conditions
of the license(s) which apply to the Application.

Except as stated in this special exception, the provisions of LGPL3 will
continue to comply in full to this Library. If you modify this Library, you
may apply this exception to your version of this Library, but you are not
obliged to do so. If you do not wish to do so, delete this exception statement
from your version. This exception does not (and cannot) modify any license
terms which apply to the Application, with which you must still comply.
 
>>> docker-1.11.0

Copyright 2013-2016 Docker, Inc.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not
use this file except in compliance with the License.  You may obtain a copy of
the License at

https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  See the
License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under
the License.

ADDITIONAL LICENSE INFORMATION:

> BSD

docker-1.11.0.tar.gz\docker-1.11.0.tar\docker-1.11.0\contrib\completion\zsh\docker

Copyright (c) 2013, Felix Riedel All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer.  Redistributions in binary
form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and
the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
with the distribution.  Neither the name of the <organization> nor the names
of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from
this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL <COPYRIGHT HOLDER> BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING,
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY
OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT(INCLUDING
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE,
EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

> GPL 2.0

[VMware does not distribute the subcomponent "docker.initd sbin"]

docker-1.11.0.tar.gz\docker-1.11.0.tar\docker-1.11.0\contrib\init\openrc\docker.initdsbin

Copyright 1999-2013 Gentoo Foundation Distributed under the terms of the GNU
General Public License v2

> MIT

docker-1.11.0.tar.gz\docker-1.11.0.tar\docker-1.11.0\vendor\src\github.com\armon\go-metrics\LICENSE

The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2013 Armon Dadgar

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE

> MIT Style

docker-1.11.0.tar.gz\docker-1.11.0.tar\docker-1.11.0\vendor\src\github.com\BurntSushi\toml\cmd\toml-test-decoder\COPYING

DO WHAT THE FUCK YOU WANT TO PUBLIC LICENSE Version 2, December 2004

Copyright (C) 2004 Sam Hocevar <sam@hocevar.net>

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim or modified copies of
this license document, and changing it is allowed as long as the name is
changed.

DO WHAT THE FUCK YOU WANT TO PUBLIC LICENSE TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING,
DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

You just DO WHAT THE FUCK YOU WANT TO.

> CC-Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 

docker-1.11.0.tar.gz\docker-1.11.0.tar\docker-1.11.0\vendor\src\github.com\docker\libkv\LICENSE.docs

License: Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International Public
License

> MPL 2.0

docker-1.11.0.tar.gz\docker-1.11.0.tar\docker-1.11.0\vendor\src\github.com\hashicorp\consul\website\LICENSE.md

THIS PACKAGE IS PROVIDED IN BINARY FORM.  THE SOURCE CODE MAY BE DOWNLOADED AT
https://codeload.github.com/docker/docker/tar.gz/v1.11.0

Proprietary License

This license is temporary while a more official one is drafted. However, this
should make it clear:

The text contents of this website are MPL 2.0 licensed.

The design contents of this website are proprietary and may not be reproduced
or reused in any way other than to run the Consul website locally. The license
for the design is owned solely by HashiCorp, Inc.

> Public Domain

docker-1.11.0.tar.gz\docker-1.11.0.tar\docker-1.11.0\vendor\src\github.com\mattn\go-sqlite3\code\sqlite3ext.h

The author disclaims copyright to this source code.  In place of a legal
notice, here is a blessing:

May you do good and not evil.  May you find forgiveness for yourself and
forgive others.  May you share freely, never taking more than you give.

> RSA Data Security

docker-1.11.0.tar.gz\docker-1.11.0.tar\docker-1.11.0\vendor\src\github.com\miekg\pkcs11\\pkcs11t.h

License to copy and use this software is granted provided that it is
identified as "RSA Security Inc. PKCS #11 Cryptographic Token Interface
(Cryptoki)" in all material mentioning or referencing this software.

License is also granted to make and use derivative works provided that such
works are identified as "derived from the RSA Security Inc. PKCS #11
Cryptographic Token Interface (Cryptoki)" in all material mentioning or
referencing the derived work.

RSA Security Inc. makes no representations concerning either the
merchantability of this software or the suitability of this software for any
particular purpose. It is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty
of any kind.

>>> gas-37205e9afa56150a634a1d0d19347446e9b27f17

(c) Copyright 2016 Hewlett Packard Enterprise Development LP

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not
use this file except in compliance with the License.  You may obtain a copy of
the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  See the
License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under
the License.

LICENSE: Apache 2.0

>>> go-swagger-c58f48e81158a4394adffc43b59c07fce1993f19

Copyright 2015 go-swagger maintainers

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not
use this file except in compliance with the License.  You may obtain a copy of
the License at

http:www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  See the
License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under
the License.

ADDITIONAL LICENSE INFORMATION:

>MIT Style

go-swagger-master.zip\go-swagger-master\DCO

Developer Certificate of Origin Version 1.1

Copyright (C) 2004, 2006 The Linux Foundation and its contributors.  660 York
Street, Suite 102, San Francisco, CA 94110 USA

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.

Developer's Certificate of Origin 1.1

By making a contribution to this project, I certify that:

(a) The contribution was created in whole or in part by me and I have the
right to submit it under the open source license indicated in the file; or

(b) The contribution is based upon previous work that, to the best of my
knowledge, is covered under an appropriate open source license and I have the
right under that license to submit that work with modifications, whether
created in whole or in part by me, under the same open source license (unless
I am permitted to submit under a different license), as indicated in the file;
or

(c) The contribution was provided directly to me by some other person who
certified (a), (b) or (c) and I have not modified it.

(d) I understand and agree that this project and the contribution are public
and that a record of the contribution (including all personal information I
submit with it, including my sign-off) is maintained indefinitely and may be
redistributed consistent with this project or the open source license(s)
involved.

>LGPL 3.0

[VMware does not distribute the subcomponent"yaml.v2"]

go-swagger-master.zip\go-swagger-master\vendor\gopkg.in\yaml.v2\LICENSE

Copyright (c) 2011-2014 - Canonical Inc.

This software is licensed under the LGPLv3, included below.

As a special exception to the GNU Lesser General Public License version 3
("LGPL3"), the copyright holders of this Library give you permission to convey
to a third party a Combined Work that links statically or dynamically to this
Library without providing any Minimal Corresponding Source or Minimal
Application Code as set out in 4d or providing the installation information
set out in section 4e, provided that you comply with the other provisions of
LGPL3 and provided that you meet, for the Application the terms and conditions
of the license(s) which apply to the Application.

Except as stated in this special exception, the provisions of LGPL3 will
continue to comply in full to this Library. If you modify this Library, you
may apply this exception to your version of this Library, but you are not
obliged to do so. If you do not wish to do so, delete this exception statement
from your version. This exception does not (and cannot) modify any license
terms which apply to the Application, with which you must still comply.

>BSD

master\vendor\golang.org\x\tools\imports\LICENSE

Copyright (c) 2009 The Go Authors. All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
* Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

>MIT

go-swagger-master.zip\go-swagger-master\vendor\github.com\vburenin\nsync\LICENSE

The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2016 Volodymyr Burenin

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

>BSD

go-swagger-master.zip\go-swagger-master\vendor\github.com\PuerkitoBio\purell\LICENSE

Copyright (c) 2012, Martin Angers All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
* list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
* this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
* and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

* Neither the name of the author nor the names of its contributors may be used
* to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific
* prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

>>> go-systemd-7b2428fec40033549c68f54e26e89e7ca9a9ce31

Copyright 2015 CoreOS, Inc.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not
use this file except in compliance with the License.  You may obtain a copy of
the License at

http:www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  See the
License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under
the License.

Package util contains utility functions related to systemd that applications
can use to check things like whether systemd is running.  Note that some of
these functions attempt to manually load systemd libraries at runtime rather
than linking against them.

ADDITIONAL LICENSE INFORMATION:

>MIT Style

go-systemd-master.zip\go-systemd-master\DCO

Developer Certificate of Origin Version 1.1

Copyright (C) 2004, 2006 The Linux Foundation and its contributors.  660 York
Street, Suite 102, San Francisco, CA 94110 USA

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.

Developer's Certificate of Origin 1.1

By making a contribution to this project, I certify that:

(a) The contribution was created in whole or in part by me and I have the
right to submit it under the open source license indicated in the file; or

(b) The contribution is based upon previous work that, to the best of my
knowledge, is covered under an appropriate open source license and I have the
right under that license to submit that work with modifications, whether
created in whole or in part by me, under the same open source license (unless
I am permitted to submit under a different license), as indicated in the file;
or

(c) The contribution was provided directly to me by some other person who
certified (a), (b) or (c) and I have not modified it.

(d) I understand and agree that this project and the contribution are public
and that a record of the contribution (including all personal information I
submit with it, including my sign-off) is maintained indefinitely and may be
redistributed consistent with this project or the open source license(s)
involved.

>>> govmomi-v0.9.0

Copyright (c) 2015 VMware, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not
use this file except in compliance with the License.  You may obtain a copy of
the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  See the
License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under
the License.

ADDITIONAL LICENSE INFORMATION:

>GPL 3.0

[VMware does not distribute the subpackage "govc\emacs\govc.el"]
 
govmomi-0.9.0.tar.gz\govmomi-0.9.0.tar\govmomi-0.9.0\govc\emacs\govc.el

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 3, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
GNU Emacs; see the file COPYING.  If not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA.

>MIT

govmomi-0.9.0.tar.gz\govmomi-0.9.0.tar\govmomi-0.9.0\vendor\github.com\davecgh\go-spew\spew\spew.go

Copyright (c) 2013 Dave Collins <dave@davec.name>

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any purpose
with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright
notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH
REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT,
INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM
LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR
OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

>BSD  3-Clause

govmomi-0.9.0.tar.gz\govmomi-0.9.0.tar\govmomi-0.9.0\vim25\xml\LICENSE

Copyright (c) 2012 The Go Authors. All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
* Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

>>> groupcache/lru-4eab30f13db9d8b25c752e99d1583628ac2fa422

Copyright 2012 Google Inc.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not
use this file except in compliance with the License.  You may obtain a copy of
the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  See the
License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under
the License.

>>> netlink-e73bad418fd727ed3a02830b1af1ad0283a1de6c

LICENSE: Apache 2.0

>>> shakers-24d7f1d6a71aa5d9cbe7390e4afb66b7eef9e1b3

License: Apache 2.0

>>> sigma/bdoor-b9c82b7b3c0b1e57ec2f8809b6219fbe6a58d92a

Copyright 2016 Yann Hodique

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not
use this file except in compliance with the License.  You may obtain a copy of
the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  See the
License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under
the License.

------ SECTION 3: Common Development and Distribution License, V1.0 -----

Common Development and Distribution License, V1.0 is applicable to the
following component(s).

>>> vmw-guestinfo-e3da01aaaf522290dc2ec74cb2ec258e2240564b

[PLEASE NOTE:  VMWARE, INC. ELECTS TO USE AND DISTRIBUTE THIS COMPONENT UNDER
THE TERMS OF THE CDDL 1.0 LICENSE.  PLEASE SEE THER APPENDIX FOR THE FULL TEXT
OF THE CDDL 1.0 LICENSE.  THE ORIGINAL LICENSE TERMS ARE REPRODUCED BELOW ONLY
AS A REFERENCE.]

The package vmw-guestinfo is dual-licensed under the terms of:
- LGPL 2.1 and no later version (see LGPL.txt)
- CDDL 1.0 and no later version (see CDDL.txt)

Copyright (C) 1999-2015 VMware, Inc. All rights reserved.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it andor modify it under
the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation version 2.1 and no later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the Lesser GNU General Public License for more
details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License along
with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51
Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301 USA.

*********************************************************

The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development
and Distribution License (the "License") version 1.0 and no later version.
You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.

You can obtain a copy of the License at
http:www.opensource.orglicensescddl1.php

See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

ADDITIONAL LICENSE INFORMATION:

> Apache 2.0

vmw-guestinfo-master.zip\vmw-guestinfo-master\vendor\github.com\sigma\bdoor\check.go

Copyright 2016 Yann Hodique

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not
use this file except in compliance with the License.  You may obtain a copy of
the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  See the
License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under
the License.

> BSD 2-Clause

vmw-guestinfo-master.zip\vmw-guestinfo-master\include\vmware.h

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
 
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer.  2. Redistributions in binary
form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and
the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
with the distribution.
 
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND ANY
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON
ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

==================== APPENDIX. Standard License Files =================== 

------ SECTION 1: Common Development and Distribution License, V1.0 -----

COMMON DEVELOPMENT AND DISTRIBUTION LICENSE (CDDL) Version 1.0

1. Definitions.

1.1. "Contributor" means each individual or entity that creates or contributes
to the creation of Modifications.

1.2. "Contributor Version" means the combination of the Original Software,
prior Modifications used by a Contributor (if any), and the Modifications made
by that particular Contributor.

1.3. "Covered Software" means (a) the Original Software, or (b) Modifications,
or (c) the combination of files containing Original Software with files
containing Modifications, in each case including portions thereof.

1.4. "Executable" means the Covered Software in any form other than Source
Code.

1.5. "Initial Developer" means the individual or entity that first makes
Original Software available under this License.

1.6. "Larger Work" means a work which combines Covered Software or portions
thereof with code not governed by the terms of this License.

1.7. "License" means this document.

1.8. "Licensable" means having the right to grant, to the maximum extent
possible, whether at the time of the initial grant or subsequently acquired,
any and all of the rights conveyed herein.

1.9. "Modifications" means the Source Code and Executable form of any of the
following:

    A. Any file that results from an addition to, deletion from or
modification of the contents of a file containing Original Software or
previous Modifications;

    B. Any new file that contains any part of the Original Software or
previous Modification; or

    C. Any new file that is contributed or otherwise made available under the
terms of this License.

1.10. "Original Software" means the Source Code and Executable form of
computer software code that is originally released under this License.

1.11. "Patent Claims" means any patent claim(s), now owned or hereafter
acquired, including without limitation, method, process, and apparatus claims,
in any patent Licensable by grantor.

1.12. "Source Code" means (a) the common form of computer software code in
which modifications are made and (b) associated documentation included in or
with such code.

1.13. "You" (or "Your") means an individual or a legal entity exercising
rights under, and complying with all of the terms of, this License. For legal
entities, "You" includes any entity which controls, is controlled by, or is
under common control with You. For purposes of this definition, "control"
means (a) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the direction or management
of such entity, whether by contract or otherwise, or (b) ownership of more
than fifty percent (50%) of the outstanding shares or beneficial ownership of
such entity.

2. License Grants. 

2.1. The Initial Developer Grant.

Conditioned upon Your compliance with Section 3.1 below and subject to third
party intellectual property claims, the Initial Developer hereby grants You a
world-wide, royalty-free, non-exclusive license:

    (a) under intellectual property rights (other than patent or trademark)
Licensable by Initial Developer, to use, reproduce, modify, display, perform,
sublicense and distribute the Original Software (or portions thereof), with or
without Modifications, and/or as part of a Larger Work; and   

    (b) under Patent Claims infringed by the making, using or selling of
Original Software, to make, have made, use, practice, sell, and offer for
sale, and/or otherwise dispose of the Original Software (or portions thereof).

    (c) The licenses granted in Sections 2.1(a) and (b) are effective on the
date Initial Developer first distributes or otherwise makes the Original
Software available to a third party under the terms of this License.

    (d) Notwithstanding Section 2.1(b) above, no patent license is granted:
(1) for code that You delete from the Original Software, or (2) for
infringements caused by: (i) the modification of the Original Software, or
(ii) the combination of the Original Software with other software or devices.

2.2. Contributor Grant.

Conditioned upon Your compliance with Section 3.1 below and subject to third
party intellectual property claims, each Contributor hereby grants You a
world-wide, royalty-free, non-exclusive license:

    (a) under intellectual property rights (other than patent or trademark)
Licensable by Contributor to use, reproduce, modify, display, perform,
sublicense and distribute the Modifications created by such Contributor (or
portions thereof), either on an unmodified basis, with other Modifications, as
Covered Software and/or as part of a Larger Work; and

    (b) under Patent Claims infringed by the making, using, or selling of
Modifications made by that Contributor either alone and/or in combination with
its Contributor Version (or portions of such combination), to make, use, sell,
offer for sale, have made, and/or otherwise dispose of: (1) Modifications made
by that Contributor (or portions thereof); and (2) the combination of
Modifications made by that Contributor with its Contributor Version (or
portions of such combination).

    (c) The licenses granted in Sections 2.2(a) and 2.2(b) are effective on
the date Contributor first distributes or otherwise makes the Modifications
available to a third party.

    (d) Notwithstanding Section 2.2(b) above, no patent license is granted:
(1) for any code that Contributor has deleted from the Contributor Version;
(2) for infringements caused by: (i) third party modifications of Contributor
Version, or (ii) the combination of Modifications made by that Contributor
with other software (except as part of the Contributor Version) or other
devices; or (3) under Patent Claims infringed by Covered Software in the
absence of Modifications made by that Contributor.

3. Distribution Obligations.

3.1. Availability of Source Code.

Any Covered Software that You distribute or otherwise make available in
Executable form must also be made available in Source Code form and that
Source Code form must be distributed only under the terms of this License. You
must include a copy of this License with every copy of the Source Code form of
the Covered Software You distribute or otherwise make available. You must
inform recipients of any such Covered Software in Executable form as to how
they can obtain such Covered Software in Source Code form in a reasonable
manner on or through a medium customarily used for software exchange.

3.2. Modifications.

The Modifications that You create or to which You contribute are governed by
the terms of this License. You represent that You believe Your Modifications
are Your original creation(s) and/or You have sufficient rights to grant the
rights conveyed by this License.

3.3. Required Notices.

You must include a notice in each of Your Modifications that identifies You as
the Contributor of the Modification.  You may not remove or alter any
copyright, patent or trademark notices contained within the Covered Software,
or any notices of licensing or any descriptive text giving attribution to any
Contributor or the Initial Developer.

3.4. Application of Additional Terms.

You may not offer or impose any terms on any Covered Software in Source Code
form that alters or restricts the applicable version of this License or the
recipients' rights hereunder. You may choose to offer, and to charge a fee
for, warranty, support, indemnity or liability obligations to one or more
recipients of Covered Software.  However, you may do so only on Your own
behalf, and not on behalf of the Initial Developer or any Contributor. You
must make it absolutely clear that any such warranty, support, indemnity or
liability obligation is offered by You alone, and You hereby agree to
indemnify the Initial Developer and every Contributor for any liability
incurred by the Initial Developer or such Contributor as a result of warranty,
support, indemnity or liability terms You offer.

3.5. Distribution of Executable Versions.

You may distribute the Executable form of the Covered Software under the terms
of this License or under the terms of a license of Your choice, which may
contain terms different from this License, provided that You are in compliance
with the terms of this License and that the license for the Executable form
does not attempt to limit or alter the recipient's rights in the Source Code
form from the rights set forth in this License. If You distribute the Covered
Software in Executable form under a different license, You must make it
absolutely clear that any terms which differ from this License are offered by
You alone, not by the Initial Developer or Contributor. You hereby agree to
indemnify the Initial Developer and every Contributor for any liability
incurred by the Initial Developer or such Contributor as a result of any such
terms You offer.

3.6. Larger Works.

You may create a Larger Work by combining Covered Software with other code not
governed by the terms of this License and distribute the Larger Work as a
single product. In such a case, You must make sure the requirements of this
License are fulfilled for the Covered Software.

4. Versions of the License. 

4.1. New Versions.

Sun Microsystems, Inc. is the initial license steward and may publish revised
and/or new versions of this License from time to time. Each version will be
given a distinguishing version number. Except as provided in Section 4.3, no
one other than the license steward has the right to modify this License.

4.2. Effect of New Versions.

You may always continue to use, distribute or otherwise make the Covered
Software available under the terms of the version of the License under which
You originally received the Covered Software. If the Initial Developer
includes a notice in the Original Software prohibiting it from being
distributed or otherwise made available under any subsequent version of the
License, You must distribute and make the Covered Software available under the
terms of the version of the License under which You originally received the
Covered Software. Otherwise, You may also choose to use, distribute or
otherwise make the Covered Software available under the terms of any
subsequent version of the License published by the license steward.

4.3. Modified Versions.

When You are an Initial Developer and You want to create a new license for
Your Original Software, You may create and use a modified version of this
License if You: (a) rename the license and remove any references to the name
of the license steward (except to note that the license differs from this
License); and (b) otherwise make it clear that the license contains terms
which differ from this License.

5. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY.

COVERED SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED UNDER THIS LICENSE ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, WITHOUT
LIMITATION, WARRANTIES THAT THE COVERED SOFTWARE IS FREE OF DEFECTS,
MERCHANTABLE, FIT FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGING. THE ENTIRE RISK
AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE COVERED SOFTWARE IS WITH YOU. SHOULD
ANY COVERED SOFTWARE PROVE DEFECTIVE IN ANY RESPECT, YOU (NOT THE INITIAL
DEVELOPER OR ANY OTHER CONTRIBUTOR) ASSUME THE COST OF ANY NECESSARY
SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION. THIS DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY CONSTITUTES AN
ESSENTIAL PART OF THIS LICENSE. NO USE OF ANY COVERED SOFTWARE IS AUTHORIZED
HEREUNDER EXCEPT UNDER THIS DISCLAIMER.

6. TERMINATION. 

6.1. This License and the rights granted hereunder will terminate
automatically if You fail to comply with terms herein and fail to cure such
breach within 30 days of becoming aware of the breach. Provisions which, by
their nature, must remain in effect beyond the termination of this License
shall survive.

6.2. If You assert a patent infringement claim (excluding declaratory judgment
actions) against Initial Developer or a Contributor (the Initial Developer or
Contributor against whom You assert such claim is referred to as
"Participant") alleging that the Participant Software (meaning the Contributor
Version where the Participant is a Contributor or the Original Software where
the Participant is the Initial Developer) directly or indirectly infringes any
patent, then any and all rights granted directly or indirectly to You by such
Participant, the Initial Developer (if the Initial Developer is not the
Participant) and all Contributors under Sections 2.1 and/or 2.2 of this
License shall, upon 60 days notice from Participant terminate prospectively
and automatically at the expiration of such 60 day notice period, unless if
within such 60 day period You withdraw Your claim with respect to the
Participant Software against such Participant either unilaterally or pursuant
to a written agreement with Participant.

6.3. In the event of termination under Sections 6.1 or 6.2 above, all end user
licenses that have been validly granted by You or any distributor hereunder
prior to termination (excluding licenses granted to You by any distributor)
shall survive termination.

7. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.

UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES AND UNDER NO LEGAL THEORY, WHETHER TORT (INCLUDING
NEGLIGENCE), CONTRACT, OR OTHERWISE, SHALL YOU, THE INITIAL DEVELOPER, ANY
OTHER CONTRIBUTOR, OR ANY DISTRIBUTOR OF COVERED SOFTWARE, OR ANY SUPPLIER OF
ANY OF SUCH PARTIES, BE LIABLE TO ANY PERSON FOR ANY INDIRECT, SPECIAL,
INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY CHARACTER INCLUDING, WITHOUT
LIMITATION, DAMAGES FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSS OF GOODWILL, WORK STOPPAGE,
COMPUTER FAILURE OR MALFUNCTION, OR ANY AND ALL OTHER COMMERCIAL DAMAGES OR
LOSSES, EVEN IF SUCH PARTY SHALL HAVE BEEN INFORMED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGES. THIS LIMITATION OF LIABILITY SHALL NOT APPLY TO LIABILITY FOR DEATH
OR PERSONAL INJURY RESULTING FROM SUCH PARTY'S NEGLIGENCE TO THE EXTENT
APPLICABLE LAW PROHIBITS SUCH LIMITATION. SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE
EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SO THIS
EXCLUSION AND LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.

8. U.S. GOVERNMENT END USERS.

The Covered Software is a "commercial item," as that term is defined in 48
C.F.R. 2.101 (Oct. 1995), consisting of "commercial computer software" (as
that term is defined at 48 C.F.R.  252.227-7014(a)(1)) and "commercial
computer software documentation" as such terms are used in 48 C.F.R. 12.212
(Sept.  1995). Consistent with 48 C.F.R. 12.212 and 48 C.F.R. 227.7202-1
through 227.7202-4 (June 1995), all U.S. Government End Users acquire Covered
Software with only those rights set forth herein.  This U.S. Government Rights
clause is in lieu of, and supersedes, any other FAR, DFAR, or other clause or
provision that addresses Government rights in computer software under this
License.

9. MISCELLANEOUS.

This License represents the complete agreement concerning subject matter
hereof. If any provision of this License is held to be unenforceable, such
provision shall be reformed only to the extent necessary to make it
enforceable. This License shall be governed by the law of the jurisdiction
specified in a notice contained within the Original Software (except to the
extent applicable law, if any, provides otherwise), excluding such
jurisdiction's conflict-of-law provisions. Any litigation relating to this
License shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the courts located in the
jurisdiction and venue specified in a notice contained within the Original
Software, with the losing party responsible for costs, including, without
limitation, court costs and reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses. The
application of the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the
International Sale of Goods is expressly excluded. Any law or regulation which
provides that the language of a contract shall be construed against the
drafter shall not apply to this License. You agree that You alone are
responsible for compliance with the United States export administration
regulations (and the export control laws and regulation of any other
countries) when You use, distribute or otherwise make available any Covered
Software.

10. RESPONSIBILITY FOR CLAIMS.

As between Initial Developer and the Contributors, each party is responsible
for claims and damages arising, directly or indirectly, out of its utilization
of rights under this License and You agree to work with Initial Developer and
Contributors to distribute such responsibility on an equitable basis. Nothing
herein is intended or shall be deemed to constitute any admission of
liability.

--------- SECTION 2: Creative Commons Attribution License, V3.0 --------
   
Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 Unported

CREATIVE COMMONS CORPORATION IS NOT A LAW FIRM AND DOES NOT PROVIDE LEGAL
SERVICES. DISTRIBUTION OF THIS LICENSE DOES NOT CREATE AN ATTORNEY-CLIENT
RELATIONSHIP. CREATIVE COMMONS PROVIDES THIS INFORMATION ON AN "AS-IS" BASIS.
CREATIVE COMMONS MAKES NO WARRANTIES REGARDING THE INFORMATION PROVIDED, AND
DISCLAIMS LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES RESULTING FROM ITS USE.

License

THE WORK (AS DEFINED BELOW) IS PROVIDED UNDER THE TERMS OF THIS CREATIVE
COMMONS PUBLIC LICENSE ("CCPL" OR "LICENSE"). THE WORK IS PROTECTED BY
COPYRIGHT AND/OR OTHER APPLICABLE LAW. ANY USE OF THE WORK OTHER THAN AS
AUTHORIZED UNDER THIS LICENSE OR COPYRIGHT LAW IS PROHIBITED.

BY EXERCISING ANY RIGHTS TO THE WORK PROVIDED HERE, YOU ACCEPT AND AGREE TO BE
BOUND BY THE TERMS OF THIS LICENSE. TO THE EXTENT THIS LICENSE MAY BE
CONSIDERED TO BE A CONTRACT, THE LICENSOR GRANTS YOU THE RIGHTS CONTAINED HERE
IN CONSIDERATION OF YOUR ACCEPTANCE OF SUCH TERMS AND CONDITIONS.

1. Definitions

   a. "Adaptation" means a work based upon the Work, or upon the Work and
other pre-existing works, such as a translation, adaptation, derivative work,
arrangement of music or other alterations of a literary or artistic work, or
phonogram or performance and includes cinematographic adaptations or any other
form in which the Work may be recast, transformed, or adapted including in any
form recognizably derived from the original, except that a work that
constitutes a Collection will not be considered an Adaptation for the purpose
of this License. For the avoidance of doubt, where the Work is a musical work,
performance or phonogram, the synchronization of the Work in timed-relation
with a moving image ("synching") will be considered an Adaptation for the
purpose of this License.

   b. "Collection" means a collection of literary or artistic works, such as
encyclopedias and anthologies, or performances, phonograms or broadcasts, or
other works or subject matter other than works listed in Section 1(f) below,
which, by reason of the selection and arrangement of their contents,
constitute intellectual creations, in which the Work is included in its
entirety in unmodified form along with one or more other contributions, each
constituting separate and independent works in themselves, which together are
assembled into a collective whole. A work that constitutes a Collection will
not be considered an Adaptation (as defined above) for the purposes of this
License.

   c. "Distribute" means to make available to the public the original and
copies of the Work or Adaptation, as appropriate, through sale or other
transfer of ownership.

   d. "Licensor" means the individual, individuals, entity or entities that
offer(s) the Work under the terms of this License.

   e. "Original Author" means, in the case of a literary or artistic work, the
individual, individuals, entity or entities who created the Work or if no
individual or entity can be identified, the publisher; and in addition (i) in
the case of a performance the actors, singers, musicians, dancers, and other
persons who act, sing, deliver, declaim, play in, interpret or otherwise
perform literary or artistic works or expressions of folklore; (ii) in the
case of a phonogram the producer being the person or legal entity who first
fixes the sounds of a performance or other sounds; and, (iii) in the case of
broadcasts, the organization that transmits the broadcast.

   f. "Work" means the literary and/or artistic work offered under the terms
of this License including without limitation any production in the literary,
scientific and artistic domain, whatever may be the mode or form of its
expression including digital form, such as a book, pamphlet and other writing;
a lecture, address, sermon or other work of the same nature; a dramatic or
dramatico-musical work; a choreographic work or entertainment in dumb show; a
musical composition with or without words; a cinematographic work to which are
assimilated works expressed by a process analogous to cinematography; a work
of drawing, painting, architecture, sculpture, engraving or lithography; a
photographic work to which are assimilated works expressed by a process
analogous to photography; a work of applied art; an illustration, map, plan,
sketch or three-dimensional work relative to geography, topography,
architecture or science; a performance; a broadcast; a phonogram; a
compilation of data to the extent it is protected as a copyrightable work; or
a work performed by a variety or circus performer to the extent it is not
otherwise considered a literary or artistic work.

   g. "You" means an individual or entity exercising rights under this License
who has not previously violated the terms of this License with respect to the
Work, or who has received express permission from the Licensor to exercise
rights under this License despite a previous violation.

   h. "Publicly Perform" means to perform public recitations of the Work and
to communicate to the public those public recitations, by any means or
process, including by wire or wireless means or public digital performances;
to make available to the public Works in such a way that members of the public
may access these Works from a place and at a place individually chosen by
them; to perform the Work to the public by any means or process and the
communication to the public of the performances of the Work, including by
public digital performance; to broadcast and rebroadcast the Work by any means
including signs, sounds or images.

   i. "Reproduce" means to make copies of the Work by any means including
without limitation by sound or visual recordings and the right of fixation and
reproducing fixations of the Work, including storage of a protected
performance or phonogram in digital form or other electronic medium.

2. Fair Dealing Rights. Nothing in this License is intended to reduce, limit,
or restrict any uses free from copyright or rights arising from limitations or
exceptions that are provided for in connection with the copyright protection
under copyright law or other applicable laws.

3. License Grant. Subject to the terms and conditions of this License,
Licensor hereby grants You a worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive, perpetual
(for the duration of the applicable copyright) license to exercise the rights
in the Work as stated below:

   a. to Reproduce the Work, to incorporate the Work into one or more
Collections, and to Reproduce the Work as incorporated in the Collections;

   b. to create and Reproduce Adaptations provided that any such Adaptation,
including any translation in any medium, takes reasonable steps to clearly
label, demarcate or otherwise identify that changes were made to the original
Work. For example, a translation could be marked "The original work was
translated from English to Spanish," or a modification could indicate "The
original work has been modified.";

   c. to Distribute and Publicly Perform the Work including as incorporated in
Collections; and,

   d. to Distribute and Publicly Perform Adaptations.

   e. For the avoidance of doubt:

      i. Non-waivable Compulsory License Schemes. In those jurisdictions in
which the right to collect royalties through any statutory or compulsory
licensing scheme cannot be waived, the Licensor reserves the exclusive right
to collect such royalties for any exercise by You of the rights granted under
this License;

      ii. Waivable Compulsory License Schemes. In those jurisdictions in which
the right to collect royalties through any statutory or compulsory licensing
scheme can be waived, the Licensor waives the exclusive right to collect such
royalties for any exercise by You of the rights granted under this License;
and,

      iii. Voluntary License Schemes. The Licensor waives the right to collect
royalties, whether individually or, in the event that the Licensor is a member
of a collecting society that administers voluntary licensing schemes, via that
society, from any exercise by You of the rights granted under this License.
The above rights may be exercised in all media and formats whether now known
or hereafter devised. The above rights include the right to make such
modifications as are technically necessary to exercise the rights in other
media and formats. Subject to Section 8(f), all rights not expressly granted
by Licensor are hereby reserved.

4. Restrictions. The license granted in Section 3 above is expressly made
subject to and limited by the following restrictions:

   a. You may Distribute or Publicly Perform the Work only under the terms of
this License.  You must include a copy of, or the Uniform Resource Identifier
(URI) for, this License with every copy of the Work You Distribute or Publicly
Perform. You may not offer or impose any terms on the Work that restrict the
terms of this License or the ability of the recipient of the Work to exercise
the rights granted to that recipient under the terms of the License. You may
not sublicense the Work. You must keep intact all notices that refer to this
License and to the disclaimer of warranties with every copy of the Work You
Distribute or Publicly Perform. When You Distribute or Publicly Perform the
Work, You may not impose any effective technological measures on the Work that
restrict the ability of a recipient of the Work from You to exercise the
rights granted to that recipient under the terms of the License. This Section
4(a) applies to the Work as incorporated in a Collection, but this does not
require the Collection apart from the Work itself to be made subject to the
terms of this License. If You create a Collection, upon notice from any
Licensor You must, to the extent practicable, remove from the Collection any
credit as required by Section 4(b), as requested. If You create an Adaptation,
upon notice from any Licensor You must, to the extent practicable, remove from
the Adaptation any credit as required by Section 4(b), as requested.

   b. If You Distribute, or Publicly Perform the Work or any Adaptations or
Collections, You must, unless a request has been made pursuant to Section
4(a), keep intact all copyright notices for the Work and provide, reasonable
to the medium or means You are utilizing: (i) the name of the Original Author
(or pseudonym, if applicable) if supplied, and/or if the Original Author
and/or Licensor designate another party or parties (e.g., a sponsor institute,
publishing entity, journal) for attribution ("Attribution Parties") in
Licensor's copyright notice, terms of service or by other reasonable means,
the name of such party or parties; (ii) the title of the Work if supplied;
(iii) to the extent reasonably practicable, the URI, if any, that Licensor
specifies to be associated with the Work, unless such URI does not refer to
the copyright notice or licensing information for the Work; and (iv) ,
consistent with Section 3(b), in the case of an Adaptation, a credit
identifying the use of the Work in the Adaptation (e.g., "French translation
of the Work by Original Author," or "Screenplay based on original Work by
Original Author"). The credit required by this Section 4 (b) may be
implemented in any reasonable manner; provided, however, that in the case of a
Adaptation or Collection, at a minimum such credit will appear, if a credit
for all contributing authors of the Adaptation or Collection appears, then as
part of these credits and in a manner at least as prominent as the credits for
the other contributing authors. For the avoidance of doubt, You may only use
the credit required by this Section for the purpose of attribution in the
manner set out above and, by exercising Your rights under this License, You
may not implicitly or explicitly assert or imply any connection with,
sponsorship or endorsement by the Original Author, Licensor and/or Attribution
Parties, as appropriate, of You or Your use of the Work, without the separate,
express prior written permission of the Original Author, Licensor and/or
Attribution Parties.

   c. Except as otherwise agreed in writing by the Licensor or as may be
otherwise permitted by applicable law, if You Reproduce, Distribute or
Publicly Perform the Work either by itself or as part of any Adaptations or
Collections, You must not distort, mutilate, modify or take other derogatory
action in relation to the Work which would be prejudicial to the Original
Author's honor or reputation. Licensor agrees that in those jurisdictions
(e.g. Japan), in which any exercise of the right granted in Section 3(b) of
this License (the right to make Adaptations) would be deemed to be a
distortion, mutilation, modification or other derogatory action prejudicial to
the Original Author's honor and reputation, the Licensor will waive or not
assert, as appropriate, this Section, to the fullest extent permitted by the
applicable national law, to enable You to reasonably exercise Your right under
Section 3(b) of this License (right to make Adaptations) but not otherwise.

5. Representations, Warranties and Disclaimer UNLESS OTHERWISE MUTUALLY AGREED
TO BY THE PARTIES IN WRITING, LICENSOR OFFERS THE WORK AS-IS AND MAKES NO
REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND CONCERNING THE WORK, EXPRESS,
IMPLIED, STATUTORY OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, WARRANTIES OF
TITLE, MERCHANTIBILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NONINFRINGEMENT, OR
THE ABSENCE OF LATENT OR OTHER DEFECTS, ACCURACY, OR THE PRESENCE OF ABSENCE
OF ERRORS, WHETHER OR NOT DISCOVERABLE. SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE
EXCLUSION OF IMPLIED WARRANTIES, SO SUCH EXCLUSION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.

6. Limitation on Liability.  EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW,
IN NO EVENT WILL LICENSOR BE LIABLE TO YOU ON ANY LEGAL THEORY FOR ANY
SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR EXEMPLARY DAMAGES ARISING OUT
OF THIS LICENSE OR THE USE OF THE WORK, EVEN IF LICENSOR HAS BEEN ADVISED OF
THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

7. Termination

   a. This License and the rights granted hereunder will terminate
automatically upon any breach by You of the terms of this License. Individuals
or entities who have received Adaptations or Collections from You under this
License, however, will not have their licenses terminated provided such
individuals or entities remain in full compliance with those licenses.
Sections 1, 2, 5, 6, 7, and 8 will survive any termination of this License.

   b. Subject to the above terms and conditions, the license granted here is
perpetual (for the duration of the applicable copyright in the Work).
Notwithstanding the above, Licensor reserves the right to release the Work
under different license terms or to stop distributing the Work at any time;
provided, however that any such election will not serve to withdraw this
License (or any other license that has been, or is required to be, granted
under the terms of this License), and this License will continue in full force
and effect unless terminated as stated above.

8. Miscellaneous

   a. Each time You Distribute or Publicly Perform the Work or a Collection,
the Licensor offers to the recipient a license to the Work on the same terms
and conditions as the license granted to You under this License.

   b. Each time You Distribute or Publicly Perform an Adaptation, Licensor
offers to the recipient a license to the original Work on the same terms and
conditions as the license granted to You under this License.

   c. If any provision of this License is invalid or unenforceable under
applicable law, it shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the
remainder of the terms of this License, and without further action by the
parties to this agreement, such provision shall be reformed to the minimum
extent necessary to make such provision valid and enforceable.

   d. No term or provision of this License shall be deemed waived and no
breach consented to unless such waiver or consent shall be in writing and
signed by the party to be charged with such waiver or consent.

   e. This License constitutes the entire agreement between the parties with
respect to the Work licensed here. There are no understandings, agreements or
representations with respect to the Work not specified here. Licensor shall
not be bound by any additional provisions that may appear in any communication
from You. This License may not be modified without the mutual written
agreement of the Licensor and You.

   f. The rights granted under, and the subject matter referenced, in this
License were drafted utilizing the terminology of the Berne Convention for the
Protection of Literary and Artistic Works (as amended on September 28, 1979),
the Rome Convention of 1961, the WIPO Copyright Treaty of 1996, the WIPO
Performances and Phonograms Treaty of 1996 and the Universal Copyright
Convention (as revised on July 24, 1971). These rights and subject matter take
effect in the relevant jurisdiction in which the License terms are sought to
be enforced according to the corresponding provisions of the implementation of
those treaty provisions in the applicable national law. If the standard suite
of rights granted under applicable copyright law includes additional rights
not granted under this License, such additional rights are deemed to be
included in the License; this License is not intended to restrict the license
of any rights under applicable law.  
  
----------------- SECTION 3: Mozilla Public License, V2.0 --------------    
 
Mozilla Public License Version 2.0

1. Definitions

1.1. “Contributor” means each individual or legal entity that creates,
contributes to the creation of, or owns Covered Software.

1.2. “Contributor Version” means the combination of the Contributions of
others (if any) used by a Contributor and that particular Contributor’s
Contribution.

1.3. “Contribution” means Covered Software of a particular Contributor.

1.4. “Covered Software” means Source Code Form to which the initial
Contributor has attached the notice in Exhibit A, the Executable Form of such
Source Code Form, and Modifications of such Source Code Form, in each case
including portions thereof.

1.5. “Incompatible With Secondary Licenses” means that the initial
Contributor has attached the notice described in Exhibit B to the Covered
Software; or that the Covered Software was made available under the terms of
version 1.1 or earlier of the License, but not also under the terms of a
Secondary License.

1.6. “Executable Form” means any form of the work other than Source Code
Form.

1.7. “Larger Work” means a work that combines Covered Software with
other material, in a separate file or files, that is not Covered Software.

1.8. “License” means this document.

1.9. “Licensable” means having the right to grant, to the maximum extent
possible, whether at the time of the initial grant or subsequently, any and
all of the rights conveyed by this License.

1.10. “Modifications” means any of the following:

any file in Source Code Form that results from an addition to, deletion from,
or modification of the contents of Covered Software; or

any new file in Source Code Form that contains any Covered Software.

1.11. “Patent Claims” of a Contributor means any patent claim(s),
including without limitation, method, process, and apparatus claims, in any
patent Licensable by such Contributor that would be infringed, but for the
grant of the License, by the making, using, selling, offering for sale, having
made, import, or transfer of either its Contributions or its Contributor
Version.

1.12. “Secondary License” means either the GNU General Public License,
Version 2.0, the GNU Lesser General Public License, Version 2.1, the GNU
Affero General Public License, Version 3.0, or any later versions of those
licenses.

1.13. “Source Code Form” means the form of the work preferred for making
modifications.

1.14. “You” (or “Your”) means an individual or a legal entity
exercising rights under this License. For legal entities, “You” includes
any entity that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with
You. For purposes of this definition, “control” means (a) the power,
direct or indirect, to cause the direction or management of such entity,
whether by contract or otherwise, or (b) ownership of more than fifty percent
(50%) of the outstanding shares or beneficial ownership of such entity.

2. License Grants and Conditions

2.1. Grants

Each Contributor hereby grants You a world-wide, royalty-free, non-exclusive
license:

under intellectual property rights (other than patent or trademark) Licensable
by such Contributor to use, reproduce, make available, modify, display,
perform, distribute, and otherwise exploit its Contributions, either on an
unmodified basis, with Modifications, or as part of a Larger Work; and

under Patent Claims of such Contributor to make, use, sell, offer for sale,
have made, import, and otherwise transfer either its Contributions or its
Contributor Version.

2.2. Effective Date

The licenses granted in Section 2.1 with respect to any Contribution become
effective for each Contribution on the date the Contributor first distributes
such Contribution.

2.3. Limitations on Grant Scope

The licenses granted in this Section 2 are the only rights granted under this
License. No additional rights or licenses will be implied from the
distribution or licensing of Covered Software under this License.
Notwithstanding Section 2.1(b) above, no patent license is granted by a
Contributor:

for any code that a Contributor has removed from Covered Software; or

for infringements caused by: (i) Your and any other third party’s
modifications of Covered Software, or (ii) the combination of its
Contributions with other software (except as part of its Contributor Version);
or

under Patent Claims infringed by Covered Software in the absence of its
Contributions.

This License does not grant any rights in the trademarks, service marks, or
logos of any Contributor (except as may be necessary to comply with the notice
requirements in Section 3.4).

2.4. Subsequent Licenses

No Contributor makes additional grants as a result of Your choice to
distribute the Covered Software under a subsequent version of this License
(see Section 10.2) or under the terms of a Secondary License (if permitted
under the terms of Section 3.3).

2.5. Representation

Each Contributor represents that the Contributor believes its Contributions
are its original creation(s) or it has sufficient rights to grant the rights
to its Contributions conveyed by this License.

2.6. Fair Use

This License is not intended to limit any rights You have under applicable
copyright doctrines of fair use, fair dealing, or other equivalents.

2.7. Conditions

Sections 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, and 3.4 are conditions of the licenses granted in
Section 2.1.

3. Responsibilities

3.1. Distribution of Source Form

All distribution of Covered Software in Source Code Form, including any
Modifications that You create or to which You contribute, must be under the
terms of this License. You must inform recipients that the Source Code Form of
the Covered Software is governed by the terms of this License, and how they
can obtain a copy of this License. You may not attempt to alter or restrict
the recipients’ rights in the Source Code Form.

3.2. Distribution of Executable Form

If You distribute Covered Software in Executable Form then:

such Covered Software must also be made available in Source Code Form, as
described in Section 3.1, and You must inform recipients of the Executable
Form how they can obtain a copy of such Source Code Form by reasonable means
in a timely manner, at a charge no more than the cost of distribution to the
recipient; and

You may distribute such Executable Form under the terms of this License, or
sublicense it under different terms, provided that the license for the
Executable Form does not attempt to limit or alter the recipients’ rights
in the Source Code Form under this License.

3.3. Distribution of a Larger Work

You may create and distribute a Larger Work under terms of Your choice,
provided that You also comply with the requirements of this License for the
Covered Software. If the Larger Work is a combination of Covered Software with
a work governed by one or more Secondary Licenses, and the Covered Software is
not Incompatible With Secondary Licenses, this License permits You to
additionally distribute such Covered Software under the terms of such
Secondary License(s), so that the recipient of the Larger Work may, at their
option, further distribute the Covered Software under the terms of either this
License or such Secondary License(s).

3.4. Notices

You may not remove or alter the substance of any license notices (including
copyright notices, patent notices, disclaimers of warranty, or limitations of
liability) contained within the Source Code Form of the Covered Software,
except that You may alter any license notices to the extent required to remedy
known factual inaccuracies.

3.5. Application of Additional Terms

You may choose to offer, and to charge a fee for, warranty, support, indemnity
or liability obligations to one or more recipients of Covered Software.
However, You may do so only on Your own behalf, and not on behalf of any
Contributor. You must make it absolutely clear that any such warranty,
support, indemnity, or liability obligation is offered by You alone, and You
hereby agree to indemnify every Contributor for any liability incurred by such
Contributor as a result of warranty, support, indemnity or liability terms You
offer. You may include additional disclaimers of warranty and limitations of
liability specific to any jurisdiction.

4. Inability to Comply Due to Statute or Regulation

If it is impossible for You to comply with any of the terms of this License
with respect to some or all of the Covered Software due to statute, judicial
order, or regulation then You must: (a) comply with the terms of this License
to the maximum extent possible; and (b) describe the limitations and the code
they affect. Such description must be placed in a text file included with all
distributions of the Covered Software under this License. Except to the extent
prohibited by statute or regulation, such description must be sufficiently
detailed for a recipient of ordinary skill to be able to understand it.

5. Termination

5.1. The rights granted under this License will terminate automatically if You
fail to comply with any of its terms. However, if You become compliant, then
the rights granted under this License from a particular Contributor are
reinstated (a) provisionally, unless and until such Contributor explicitly and
finally terminates Your grants, and (b) on an ongoing basis, if such
Contributor fails to notify You of the non-compliance by some reasonable means
prior to 60 days after You have come back into compliance. Moreover, Your
grants from a particular Contributor are reinstated on an ongoing basis if
such Contributor notifies You of the non-compliance by some reasonable means,
this is the first time You have received notice of non-compliance with this
License from such Contributor, and You become compliant prior to 30 days after
Your receipt of the notice.

5.2. If You initiate litigation against any entity by asserting a patent
infringement claim (excluding declaratory judgment actions, counter-claims,
and cross-claims) alleging that a Contributor Version directly or indirectly
infringes any patent, then the rights granted to You by any and all
Contributors for the Covered Software under Section 2.1 of this License shall
terminate.

5.3. In the event of termination under Sections 5.1 or 5.2 above, all end user
license agreements (excluding distributors and resellers) which have been
validly granted by You or Your distributors under this License prior to
termination shall survive termination.

6. Disclaimer of Warranty

Covered Software is provided under this License on an “as is” basis,
without warranty of any kind, either expressed, implied, or statutory,
including, without limitation, warranties that the Covered Software is free of
defects, merchantable, fit for a particular purpose or non-infringing. The
entire risk as to the quality and performance of the Covered Software is with
You. Should any Covered Software prove defective in any respect, You (not any
Contributor) assume the cost of any necessary servicing, repair, or
correction. This disclaimer of warranty constitutes an essential part of this
License. No use of any Covered Software is authorized under this License
except under this disclaimer.

7. Limitation of Liability

Under no circumstances and under no legal theory, whether tort (including
negligence), contract, or otherwise, shall any Contributor, or anyone who
distributes Covered Software as permitted above, be liable to You for any
direct, indirect, special, incidental, or consequential damages of any
character including, without limitation, damages for lost profits, loss of
goodwill, work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and all other
commercial damages or losses, even if such party shall have been informed of
the possibility of such damages. This limitation of liability shall not apply
to liability for death or personal injury resulting from such party’s
negligence to the extent applicable law prohibits such limitation. Some
jurisdictions do not allow the exclusion or limitation of incidental or
consequential damages, so this exclusion and limitation may not apply to You.

8. Litigation

Any litigation relating to this License may be brought only in the courts of a
jurisdiction where the defendant maintains its principal place of business and
such litigation shall be governed by laws of that jurisdiction, without
reference to its conflict-of-law provisions. Nothing in this Section shall
prevent a party’s ability to bring cross-claims or counter-claims.

9. Miscellaneous

This License represents the complete agreement concerning the subject matter
hereof. If any provision of this License is held to be unenforceable, such
provision shall be reformed only to the extent necessary to make it
enforceable. Any law or regulation which provides that the language of a
contract shall be construed against the drafter shall not be used to construe
this License against a Contributor.

10. Versions of the License

10.1. New Versions

Mozilla Foundation is the license steward. Except as provided in Section 10.3,
no one other than the license steward has the right to modify or publish new
versions of this License. Each version will be given a distinguishing version
number.

10.2. Effect of New Versions

You may distribute the Covered Software under the terms of the version of the
License under which You originally received the Covered Software, or under the
terms of any subsequent version published by the license steward.

10.3. Modified Versions

If you create software not governed by this License, and you want to create a
new license for such software, you may create and use a modified version of
this License if you rename the license and remove any references to the name
of the license steward (except to note that such modified license differs from
this License).

10.4. Distributing Source Code Form that is Incompatible With Secondary
Licenses

If You choose to distribute Source Code Form that is Incompatible With
Secondary Licenses under the terms of this version of the License, the notice
described in Exhibit B of this License must be attached.

Exhibit A - Source Code Form License Notice

This Source Code Form is subject to the terms of the Mozilla Public License,
v. 2.0. If a copy of the MPL was not distributed with this file, You can
obtain one at http://mozilla.org/MPL/2.0/.

If it is not possible or desirable to put the notice in a particular file,
then You may include the notice in a location (such as a LICENSE file in a
relevant directory) where a recipient would be likely to look for such a
notice.

You may add additional accurate notices of copyright ownership.

Exhibit B - “Incompatible With Secondary Licenses” Notice

This Source Code Form is “Incompatible With Secondary Licenses”, as
defined by the Mozilla Public License, v. 2.0. 

-------- SECTION 4: Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike, V4.0 -------

Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International Public License

Creative Commons Corporation (“Creative Commons”) is not a law firm and
does not provide legal services or legal advice. Distribution of Creative
Commons public licenses does not create a lawyer-client or other relationship.
Creative Commons makes its licenses and related information available on an
“as-is” basis. Creative Commons gives no warranties regarding its
licenses, any material licensed under their terms and conditions, or any
related information. Creative Commons disclaims all liability for damages
resulting from their use to the fullest extent possible.

Using Creative Commons Public Licenses

Creative Commons public licenses provide a standard set of terms and
conditions that creators and other rights holders may use to share original
works of authorship and other material subject to copyright and certain other
rights specified in the public license below. The following considerations are
for informational purposes only, are not exhaustive, and do not form part of
our licenses.

Considerations for licensors: Our public licenses are intended for use by
those authorized to give the public permission to use material in ways
otherwise restricted by copyright and certain other rights. Our licenses are
irrevocable. Licensors should read and understand the terms and conditions of
the license they choose before applying it. Licensors should also secure all
rights necessary before applying our licenses so that the public can reuse the
material as expected. Licensors should clearly mark any material not subject
to the license. This includes other CC-licensed material, or material used
under an exception or limitation to copyright. More considerations for
licensors.

Considerations for the public: By using one of our public licenses, a licensor
grants the public permission to use the licensed material under specified
terms and conditions. If the licensor’s permission is not necessary for any
reason–for example, because of any applicable exception or limitation to
copyright–then that use is not regulated by the license. Our licenses grant
only permissions under copyright and certain other rights that a licensor has
authority to grant. Use of the licensed material may still be restricted for
other reasons, including because others have copyright or other rights in the
material. A licensor may make special requests, such as asking that all
changes be marked or described. Although not required by our licenses, you are
encouraged to respect those requests where reasonable. More considerations for
the public.

Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International Public License

By exercising the Licensed Rights (defined below), You accept and agree to be
bound by the terms and conditions of this Creative Commons
Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International Public License ("Public License"). To
the extent this Public License may be interpreted as a contract, You are
granted the Licensed Rights in consideration of Your acceptance of these terms
and conditions, and the Licensor grants You such rights in consideration of
benefits the Licensor receives from making the Licensed Material available
under these terms and conditions.

Section 1 – Definitions.

Adapted Material means material subject to Copyright and Similar Rights that
is derived from or based upon the Licensed Material and in which the Licensed
Material is translated, altered, arranged, transformed, or otherwise modified
in a manner requiring permission under the Copyright and Similar Rights held
by the Licensor. For purposes of this Public License, where the Licensed
Material is a musical work, performance, or sound recording, Adapted Material
is always produced where the Licensed Material is synched in timed relation
with a moving image.  Adapter's License means the license You apply to Your
Copyright and Similar Rights in Your contributions to Adapted Material in
accordance with the terms and conditions of this Public License.  BY-SA
Compatible License means a license listed at
creativecommons.org/compatiblelicenses, approved by Creative Commons as
essentially the equivalent of this Public License.  Copyright and Similar
Rights means copyright and/or similar rights closely related to copyright
including, without limitation, performance, broadcast, sound recording, and
Sui Generis Database Rights, without regard to how the rights are labeled or
categorized. For purposes of this Public License, the rights specified in
Section 2(b)(1)-(2) are not Copyright and Similar Rights.  Effective
Technological Measures means those measures that, in the absence of proper
authority, may not be circumvented under laws fulfilling obligations under
Article 11 of the WIPO Copyright Treaty adopted on December 20, 1996, and/or
similar international agreements.  Exceptions and Limitations means fair use,
fair dealing, and/or any other exception or limitation to Copyright and
Similar Rights that applies to Your use of the Licensed Material.  License
Elements means the license attributes listed in the name of a Creative Commons
Public License. The License Elements of this Public License are Attribution
and ShareAlike.  Licensed Material means the artistic or literary work,
database, or other material to which the Licensor applied this Public License.
Licensed Rights means the rights granted to You subject to the terms and
conditions of this Public License, which are limited to all Copyright and
Similar Rights that apply to Your use of the Licensed Material and that the
Licensor has authority to license.  Licensor means the individual(s) or
entity(ies) granting rights under this Public License.  Share means to provide
material to the public by any means or process that requires permission under
the Licensed Rights, such as reproduction, public display, public performance,
distribution, dissemination, communication, or importation, and to make
material available to the public including in ways that members of the public
may access the material from a place and at a time individually chosen by
them.  Sui Generis Database Rights means rights other than copyright resulting
from Directive 96/9/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11
March 1996 on the legal protection of databases, as amended and/or succeeded,
as well as other essentially equivalent rights anywhere in the world.  You
means the individual or entity exercising the Licensed Rights under this
Public License. Your has a corresponding meaning.

Section 2 – Scope.

License grant.  Subject to the terms and conditions of this Public License,
the Licensor hereby grants You a worldwide, royalty-free, non-sublicensable,
non-exclusive, irrevocable license to exercise the Licensed Rights in the
Licensed Material to: reproduce and Share the Licensed Material, in whole or
in part; and produce, reproduce, and Share Adapted Material.  Exceptions and
Limitations. For the avoidance of doubt, where Exceptions and Limitations
apply to Your use, this Public License does not apply, and You do not need to
comply with its terms and conditions.  Term. The term of this Public License
is specified in Section 6(a).  Media and formats; technical modifications
allowed. The Licensor authorizes You to exercise the Licensed Rights in all
media and formats whether now known or hereafter created, and to make
technical modifications necessary to do so. The Licensor waives and/or agrees
not to assert any right or authority to forbid You from making technical
modifications necessary to exercise the Licensed Rights, including technical
modifications necessary to circumvent Effective Technological Measures. For
purposes of this Public License, simply making modifications authorized by
this Section 2(a)(4) never produces Adapted Material.  Downstream recipients.
Offer from the Licensor – Licensed Material. Every recipient of the
Licensed Material automatically receives an offer from the Licensor to
exercise the Licensed Rights under the terms and conditions of this Public
License.  Additional offer from the Licensor – Adapted Material. Every
recipient of Adapted Material from You automatically receives an offer from
the Licensor to exercise the Licensed Rights in the Adapted Material under the
conditions of the Adapter’s License You apply.  No downstream restrictions.
You may not offer or impose any additional or different terms or conditions
on, or apply any Effective Technological Measures to, the Licensed Material if
doing so restricts exercise of the Licensed Rights by any recipient of the
Licensed Material.  No endorsement. Nothing in this Public License constitutes
or may be construed as permission to assert or imply that You are, or that
Your use of the Licensed Material is, connected with, or sponsored, endorsed,
or granted official status by, the Licensor or others designated to receive
attribution as provided in Section 3(a)(1)(A)(i).

Other rights.  Moral rights, such as the right of integrity, are not licensed
under this Public License, nor are publicity, privacy, and/or other similar
personality rights; however, to the extent possible, the Licensor waives
and/or agrees not to assert any such rights held by the Licensor to the
limited extent necessary to allow You to exercise the Licensed Rights, but not
otherwise.  Patent and trademark rights are not licensed under this Public
License.  To the extent possible, the Licensor waives any right to collect
royalties from You for the exercise of the Licensed Rights, whether directly
or through a collecting society under any voluntary or waivable statutory or
compulsory licensing scheme. In all other cases the Licensor expressly
reserves any right to collect such royalties.

Section 3 – License Conditions.

Your exercise of the Licensed Rights is expressly made subject to the
following conditions.

Attribution.

If You Share the Licensed Material (including in modified form), You must:
retain the following if it is supplied by the Licensor with the Licensed
Material: identification of the creator(s) of the Licensed Material and any
others designated to receive attribution, in any reasonable manner requested
by the Licensor (including by pseudonym if designated); a copyright notice; a
notice that refers to this Public License; a notice that refers to the
disclaimer of warranties; a URI or hyperlink to the Licensed Material to the
extent reasonably practicable; indicate if You modified the Licensed Material
and retain an indication of any previous modifications; and indicate the
Licensed Material is licensed under this Public License, and include the text
of, or the URI or hyperlink to, this Public License.  You may satisfy the
conditions in Section 3(a)(1) in any reasonable manner based on the medium,
means, and context in which You Share the Licensed Material. For example, it
may be reasonable to satisfy the conditions by providing a URI or hyperlink to
a resource that includes the required information.  If requested by the
Licensor, You must remove any of the information required by Section
3(a)(1)(A) to the extent reasonably practicable.  ShareAlike.

In addition to the conditions in Section 3(a), if You Share Adapted Material
You produce, the following conditions also apply.  The Adapter’s License
You apply must be a Creative Commons license with the same License Elements,
this version or later, or a BY-SA Compatible License.  You must include the
text of, or the URI or hyperlink to, the Adapter's License You apply. You may
satisfy this condition in any reasonable manner based on the medium, means,
and context in which You Share Adapted Material.  You may not offer or impose
any additional or different terms or conditions on, or apply any Effective
Technological Measures to, Adapted Material that restrict exercise of the
rights granted under the Adapter's License You apply.

Section 4 – Sui Generis Database Rights.

Where the Licensed Rights include Sui Generis Database Rights that apply to
Your use of the Licensed Material:

for the avoidance of doubt, Section 2(a)(1) grants You the right to extract,
reuse, reproduce, and Share all or a substantial portion of the contents of
the database; if You include all or a substantial portion of the database
contents in a database in which You have Sui Generis Database Rights, then the
database in which You have Sui Generis Database Rights (but not its individual
contents) is Adapted Material, including for purposes of Section 3(b); and You
must comply with the conditions in Section 3(a) if You Share all or a
substantial portion of the contents of the database.

For the avoidance of doubt, this Section 4 supplements and does not replace
Your obligations under this Public License where the Licensed Rights include
other Copyright and Similar Rights.

Section 5 – Disclaimer of Warranties and Limitation of Liability.

Unless otherwise separately undertaken by the Licensor, to the extent
possible, the Licensor offers the Licensed Material as-is and as-available,
and makes no representations or warranties of any kind concerning the Licensed
Material, whether express, implied, statutory, or other. This includes,
without limitation, warranties of title, merchantability, fitness for a
particular purpose, non-infringement, absence of latent or other defects,
accuracy, or the presence or absence of errors, whether or not known or
discoverable. Where disclaimers of warranties are not allowed in full or in
part, this disclaimer may not apply to You.  To the extent possible, in no
event will the Licensor be liable to You on any legal theory (including,
without limitation, negligence) or otherwise for any direct, special,
indirect, incidental, consequential, punitive, exemplary, or other losses,
costs, expenses, or damages arising out of this Public License or use of the
Licensed Material, even if the Licensor has been advised of the possibility of
such losses, costs, expenses, or damages. Where a limitation of liability is
not allowed in full or in part, this limitation may not apply to You.

The disclaimer of warranties and limitation of liability provided above shall
be interpreted in a manner that, to the extent possible, most closely
approximates an absolute disclaimer and waiver of all liability.

Section 6 – Term and Termination.

This Public License applies for the term of the Copyright and Similar Rights
licensed here. However, if You fail to comply with this Public License, then
Your rights under this Public License terminate automatically.

Where Your right to use the Licensed Material has terminated under Section
6(a), it reinstates: automatically as of the date the violation is cured,
provided it is cured within 30 days of Your discovery of the violation; or
upon express reinstatement by the Licensor.  For the avoidance of doubt, this
Section 6(b) does not affect any right the Licensor may have to seek remedies
for Your violations of this Public License.  For the avoidance of doubt, the
Licensor may also offer the Licensed Material under separate terms or
conditions or stop distributing the Licensed Material at any time; however,
doing so will not terminate this Public License.  Sections 1, 5, 6, 7, and 8
survive termination of this Public License.

Section 7 – Other Terms and Conditions.

The Licensor shall not be bound by any additional or different terms or
conditions communicated by You unless expressly agreed.  Any arrangements,
understandings, or agreements regarding the Licensed Material not stated
herein are separate from and independent of the terms and conditions of this
Public License.

Section 8 – Interpretation.

For the avoidance of doubt, this Public License does not, and shall not be
interpreted to, reduce, limit, restrict, or impose conditions on any use of
the Licensed Material that could lawfully be made without permission under
this Public License.  To the extent possible, if any provision of this Public
License is deemed unenforceable, it shall be automatically reformed to the
minimum extent necessary to make it enforceable. If the provision cannot be
reformed, it shall be severed from this Public License without affecting the
enforceability of the remaining terms and conditions.  No term or condition of
this Public License will be waived and no failure to comply consented to
unless expressly agreed to by the Licensor.  Nothing in this Public License
constitutes or may be interpreted as a limitation upon, or waiver of, any
privileges and immunities that apply to the Licensor or You, including from
the legal processes of any jurisdiction or authority.

Creative Commons is not a party to its public licenses. Notwithstanding,
Creative Commons may elect to apply one of its public licenses to material it
publishes and in those instances will be considered the “Licensor.” The
text of the Creative Commons public licenses is dedicated to the public domain
under the CC0 Public Domain Dedication. Except for the limited purpose of
indicating that material is shared under a Creative Commons public license or
as otherwise permitted by the Creative Commons policies published at
creativecommons.org/policies, Creative Commons does not authorize the use of
the trademark “Creative Commons” or any other trademark or logo of
Creative Commons without its prior written consent including, without
limitation, in connection with any unauthorized modifications to any of its
public licenses or any other arrangements, understandings, or agreements
concerning use of licensed material. For the avoidance of doubt, this
paragraph does not form part of the public licenses.

Creative Commons may be contacted at creativecommons.org.

-------------- SECTION 5: GNU General Public License, V1.0 -------------

		    GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE Version 3, 29 June 2007

 Copyright (C) 2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc. <http://fsf.org/> Everyone
is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license document,
but changing it is not allowed.

			    Preamble

  The GNU General Public License is a free, copyleft license for software and
other kinds of works.

  The licenses for most software and other practical works are designed to
take away your freedom to share and change the works.  By contrast, the GNU
General Public License is intended to guarantee your freedom to share and
change all versions of a program--to make sure it remains free software for
all its users.  We, the Free Software Foundation, use the GNU General Public
License for most of our software; it applies also to any other work released
this way by its authors.  You can apply it to your programs, too.

  When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not price.  Our
General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom to
distribute copies of free software (and charge for them if you wish), that you
receive source code or can get it if you want it, that you can change the
software or use pieces of it in new free programs, and that you know you can
do these things.

  To protect your rights, we need to prevent others from denying you these
rights or asking you to surrender the rights.  Therefore, you have certain
responsibilities if you distribute copies of the software, or if you modify
it: responsibilities to respect the freedom of others.

  For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether gratis or
for a fee, you must pass on to the recipients the same freedoms that you
received.  You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the source
code.  And you must show them these terms so they know their rights.

  Developers that use the GNU GPL protect your rights with two steps: (1)
assert copyright on the software, and (2) offer you this License giving you
legal permission to copy, distribute and/or modify it.

  For the developers' and authors' protection, the GPL clearly explains that
there is no warranty for this free software.  For both users' and authors'
sake, the GPL requires that modified versions be marked as changed, so that
their problems will not be attributed erroneously to authors of previous
versions.

  Some devices are designed to deny users access to install or run modified
versions of the software inside them, although the manufacturer can do so.
This is fundamentally incompatible with the aim of protecting users' freedom
to change the software.  The systematic pattern of such abuse occurs in the
area of products for individuals to use, which is precisely where it is most
unacceptable.  Therefore, we have designed this version of the GPL to prohibit
the practice for those products.  If such problems arise substantially in
other domains, we stand ready to extend this provision to those domains in
future versions of the GPL, as needed to protect the freedom of users.

  Finally, every program is threatened constantly by software patents.  States
should not allow patents to restrict development and use of software on
general-purpose computers, but in those that do, we wish to avoid the special
danger that patents applied to a free program could make it effectively
proprietary.  To prevent this, the GPL assures that patents cannot be used to
render the program non-free.

  The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
follow.

		       TERMS AND CONDITIONS

  0. Definitions.

  "This License" refers to version 3 of the GNU General Public License.

  "Copyright" also means copyright-like laws that apply to other kinds of
works, such as semiconductor masks.

  "The Program" refers to any copyrightable work licensed under this License.
Each licensee is addressed as "you".  "Licensees" and "recipients" may be
individuals or organizations.

  To "modify" a work means to copy from or adapt all or part of the work in a
fashion requiring copyright permission, other than the making of an exact
copy.  The resulting work is called a "modified version" of the earlier work
or a work "based on" the earlier work.

  A "covered work" means either the unmodified Program or a work based on the
Program.

  To "propagate" a work means to do anything with it that, without permission,
would make you directly or secondarily liable for infringement under
applicable copyright law, except executing it on a computer or modifying a
private copy.  Propagation includes copying, distribution (with or without
modification), making available to the public, and in some countries other
activities as well.

  To "convey" a work means any kind of propagation that enables other parties
to make or receive copies.  Mere interaction with a user through a computer
network, with no transfer of a copy, is not conveying.

  An interactive user interface displays "Appropriate Legal Notices" to the
extent that it includes a convenient and prominently visible feature that (1)
displays an appropriate copyright notice, and (2) tells the user that there is
no warranty for the work (except to the extent that warranties are provided),
that licensees may convey the work under this License, and how to view a copy
of this License.  If the interface presents a list of user commands or
options, such as a menu, a prominent item in the list meets this criterion.

  1. Source Code.

  The "source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it.  "Object code" means any non-source form of a work.

  A "Standard Interface" means an interface that either is an official
standard defined by a recognized standards body, or, in the case of interfaces
specified for a particular programming language, one that is widely used among
developers working in that language.

  The "System Libraries" of an executable work include anything, other than
the work as a whole, that (a) is included in the normal form of packaging a
Major Component, but which is not part of that Major Component, and (b) serves
only to enable use of the work with that Major Component, or to implement a
Standard Interface for which an implementation is available to the public in
source code form.  A "Major Component", in this context, means a major
essential component (kernel, window system, and so on) of the specific
operating system (if any) on which the executable work runs, or a compiler
used to produce the work, or an object code interpreter used to run it.

  The "Corresponding Source" for a work in object code form means all the
source code needed to generate, install, and (for an executable work) run the
object code and to modify the work, including scripts to control those
activities.  However, it does not include the work's System Libraries, or
general-purpose tools or generally available free programs which are used
unmodified in performing those activities but which are not part of the work.
For example, Corresponding Source includes interface definition files
associated with source files for the work, and the source code for shared
libraries and dynamically linked subprograms that the work is specifically
designed to require, such as by intimate data communication or control flow
between those subprograms and other parts of the work.

  The Corresponding Source need not include anything that users can regenerate
automatically from other parts of the Corresponding Source.

  The Corresponding Source for a work in source code form is that same work.

  2. Basic Permissions.

  All rights granted under this License are granted for the term of copyright
on the Program, and are irrevocable provided the stated conditions are met.
This License explicitly affirms your unlimited permission to run the
unmodified Program.  The output from running a covered work is covered by this
License only if the output, given its content, constitutes a covered work.
This License acknowledges your rights of fair use or other equivalent, as
provided by copyright law.

  You may make, run and propagate covered works that you do not convey,
without conditions so long as your license otherwise remains in force.  You
may convey covered works to others for the sole purpose of having them make
modifications exclusively for you, or provide you with facilities for running
those works, provided that you comply with the terms of this License in
conveying all material for which you do not control copyright.  Those thus
making or running the covered works for you must do so exclusively on your
behalf, under your direction and control, on terms that prohibit them from
making any copies of your copyrighted material outside their relationship with
you.

  Conveying under any other circumstances is permitted solely under the
conditions stated below.  Sublicensing is not allowed; section 10 makes it
unnecessary.

  3. Protecting Users' Legal Rights From Anti-Circumvention Law.

  No covered work shall be deemed part of an effective technological measure
under any applicable law fulfilling obligations under article 11 of the WIPO
copyright treaty adopted on 20 December 1996, or similar laws prohibiting or
restricting circumvention of such measures.

  When you convey a covered work, you waive any legal power to forbid
circumvention of technological measures to the extent such circumvention is
effected by exercising rights under this License with respect to the covered
work, and you disclaim any intention to limit operation or modification of the
work as a means of enforcing, against the work's users, your or third parties'
legal rights to forbid circumvention of technological measures.

  4. Conveying Verbatim Copies.

  You may convey verbatim copies of the Program's source code as you receive
it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and appropriately publish
on each copy an appropriate copyright notice; keep intact all notices stating
that this License and any non-permissive terms added in accord with section 7
apply to the code; keep intact all notices of the absence of any warranty; and
give all recipients a copy of this License along with the Program.

  You may charge any price or no price for each copy that you convey, and you
may offer support or warranty protection for a fee.

  5. Conveying Modified Source Versions.

  You may convey a work based on the Program, or the modifications to produce
it from the Program, in the form of source code under the terms of section 4,
provided that you also meet all of these conditions:

    a) The work must carry prominent notices stating that you modified it, and
giving a relevant date.

    b) The work must carry prominent notices stating that it is released under
this License and any conditions added under section 7.  This requirement
modifies the requirement in section 4 to "keep intact all notices".

    c) You must license the entire work, as a whole, under this License to
anyone who comes into possession of a copy.  This License will therefore
apply, along with any applicable section 7 additional terms, to the whole of
the work, and all its parts, regardless of how they are packaged.  This
License gives no permission to license the work in any other way, but it does
not invalidate such permission if you have separately received it.

    d) If the work has interactive user interfaces, each must display
Appropriate Legal Notices; however, if the Program has interactive interfaces
that do not display Appropriate Legal Notices, your work need not make them do
so.

  A compilation of a covered work with other separate and independent works,
which are not by their nature extensions of the covered work, and which are
not combined with it such as to form a larger program, in or on a volume of a
storage or distribution medium, is called an "aggregate" if the compilation
and its resulting copyright are not used to limit the access or legal rights
of the compilation's users beyond what the individual works permit.  Inclusion
of a covered work in an aggregate does not cause this License to apply to the
other parts of the aggregate.

  6. Conveying Non-Source Forms.

  You may convey a covered work in object code form under the terms of
sections 4 and 5, provided that you also convey the machine-readable
Corresponding Source under the terms of this License, in one of these ways:

    a) Convey the object code in, or embodied in, a physical product
(including a physical distribution medium), accompanied by the Corresponding
Source fixed on a durable physical medium customarily used for software
interchange.

    b) Convey the object code in, or embodied in, a physical product
(including a physical distribution medium), accompanied by a written offer,
valid for at least three years and valid for as long as you offer spare parts
or customer support for that product model, to give anyone who possesses the
object code either (1) a copy of the Corresponding Source for all the software
in the product that is covered by this License, on a durable physical medium
customarily used for software interchange, for a price no more than your
reasonable cost of physically performing this conveying of source, or (2)
access to copy the Corresponding Source from a network server at no charge.

    c) Convey individual copies of the object code with a copy of the written
offer to provide the Corresponding Source.  This alternative is allowed only
occasionally and noncommercially, and only if you received the object code
with such an offer, in accord with subsection 6b.

    d) Convey the object code by offering access from a designated place
(gratis or for a charge), and offer equivalent access to the Corresponding
Source in the same way through the same place at no further charge.  You need
not require recipients to copy the Corresponding Source along with the object
code.  If the place to copy the object code is a network server, the
Corresponding Source may be on a different server (operated by you or a third
party) that supports equivalent copying facilities, provided you maintain
clear directions next to the object code saying where to find the
Corresponding Source.  Regardless of what server hosts the Corresponding
Source, you remain obligated to ensure that it is available for as long as
needed to satisfy these requirements.

    e) Convey the object code using peer-to-peer transmission, provided you
inform other peers where the object code and Corresponding Source of the work
are being offered to the general public at no charge under subsection 6d.

  A separable portion of the object code, whose source code is excluded from
the Corresponding Source as a System Library, need not be included in
conveying the object code work.

  A "User Product" is either (1) a "consumer product", which means any
tangible personal property which is normally used for personal, family, or
household purposes, or (2) anything designed or sold for incorporation into a
dwelling.  In determining whether a product is a consumer product, doubtful
cases shall be resolved in favor of coverage.  For a particular product
received by a particular user, "normally used" refers to a typical or common
use of that class of product, regardless of the status of the particular user
or of the way in which the particular user actually uses, or expects or is
expected to use, the product.  A product is a consumer product regardless of
whether the product has substantial commercial, industrial or non-consumer
uses, unless such uses represent the only significant mode of use of the
product.

  "Installation Information" for a User Product means any methods, procedures,
authorization keys, or other information required to install and execute
modified versions of a covered work in that User Product from a modified
version of its Corresponding Source.  The information must suffice to ensure
that the continued functioning of the modified object code is in no case
prevented or interfered with solely because modification has been made.

  If you convey an object code work under this section in, or with, or
specifically for use in, a User Product, and the conveying occurs as part of a
transaction in which the right of possession and use of the User Product is
transferred to the recipient in perpetuity or for a fixed term (regardless of
how the transaction is characterized), the Corresponding Source conveyed under
this section must be accompanied by the Installation Information.  But this
requirement does not apply if neither you nor any third party retains the
ability to install modified object code on the User Product (for example, the
work has been installed in ROM).

  The requirement to provide Installation Information does not include a
requirement to continue to provide support service, warranty, or updates for a
work that has been modified or installed by the recipient, or for the User
Product in which it has been modified or installed.  Access to a network may
be denied when the modification itself materially and adversely affects the
operation of the network or violates the rules and protocols for communication
across the network.

  Corresponding Source conveyed, and Installation Information provided, in
accord with this section must be in a format that is publicly documented (and
with an implementation available to the public in source code form), and must
require no special password or key for unpacking, reading or copying.

  7. Additional Terms.

  "Additional permissions" are terms that supplement the terms of this License
by making exceptions from one or more of its conditions.  Additional
permissions that are applicable to the entire Program shall be treated as
though they were included in this License, to the extent that they are valid
under applicable law.  If additional permissions apply only to part of the
Program, that part may be used separately under those permissions, but the
entire Program remains governed by this License without regard to the
additional permissions.

  When you convey a copy of a covered work, you may at your option remove any
additional permissions from that copy, or from any part of it.  (Additional
permissions may be written to require their own removal in certain cases when
you modify the work.)  You may place additional permissions on material, added
by you to a covered work, for which you have or can give appropriate copyright
permission.

  Notwithstanding any other provision of this License, for material you add to
a covered work, you may (if authorized by the copyright holders of that
material) supplement the terms of this License with terms:

    a) Disclaiming warranty or limiting liability differently from the terms
of sections 15 and 16 of this License; or

    b) Requiring preservation of specified reasonable legal notices or author
attributions in that material or in the Appropriate Legal Notices displayed by
works containing it; or

    c) Prohibiting misrepresentation of the origin of that material, or
requiring that modified versions of such material be marked in reasonable ways
as different from the original version; or

    d) Limiting the use for publicity purposes of names of licensors or
authors of the material; or

    e) Declining to grant rights under trademark law for use of some trade
names, trademarks, or service marks; or

    f) Requiring indemnification of licensors and authors of that material by
anyone who conveys the material (or modified versions of it) with contractual
assumptions of liability to the recipient, for any liability that these
contractual assumptions directly impose on those licensors and authors.

  All other non-permissive additional terms are considered "further
restrictions" within the meaning of section 10.  If the Program as you
received it, or any part of it, contains a notice stating that it is governed
by this License along with a term that is a further restriction, you may
remove that term.  If a license document contains a further restriction but
permits relicensing or conveying under this License, you may add to a covered
work material governed by the terms of that license document, provided that
the further restriction does not survive such relicensing or conveying.

  If you add terms to a covered work in accord with this section, you must
place, in the relevant source files, a statement of the additional terms that
apply to those files, or a notice indicating where to find the applicable
terms.

  Additional terms, permissive or non-permissive, may be stated in the form of
a separately written license, or stated as exceptions; the above requirements
apply either way.

  8. Termination.

  You may not propagate or modify a covered work except as expressly provided
under this License.  Any attempt otherwise to propagate or modify it is void,
and will automatically terminate your rights under this License (including any
patent licenses granted under the third paragraph of section 11).

  However, if you cease all violation of this License, then your license from
a particular copyright holder is reinstated (a) provisionally, unless and
until the copyright holder explicitly and finally terminates your license, and
(b) permanently, if the copyright holder fails to notify you of the violation
by some reasonable means prior to 60 days after the cessation.

  Moreover, your license from a particular copyright holder is reinstated
permanently if the copyright holder notifies you of the violation by some
reasonable means, this is the first time you have received notice of violation
of this License (for any work) from that copyright holder, and you cure the
violation prior to 30 days after your receipt of the notice.

  Termination of your rights under this section does not terminate the
licenses of parties who have received copies or rights from you under this
License.  If your rights have been terminated and not permanently reinstated,
you do not qualify to receive new licenses for the same material under section
10.

  9. Acceptance Not Required for Having Copies.

  You are not required to accept this License in order to receive or run a
copy of the Program.  Ancillary propagation of a covered work occurring solely
as a consequence of using peer-to-peer transmission to receive a copy likewise
does not require acceptance.  However, nothing other than this License grants
you permission to propagate or modify any covered work.  These actions
infringe copyright if you do not accept this License.  Therefore, by modifying
or propagating a covered work, you indicate your acceptance of this License to
do so.

  10. Automatic Licensing of Downstream Recipients.

  Each time you convey a covered work, the recipient automatically receives a
license from the original licensors, to run, modify and propagate that work,
subject to this License.  You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by
third parties with this License.

  An "entity transaction" is a transaction transferring control of an
organization, or substantially all assets of one, or subdividing an
organization, or merging organizations.  If propagation of a covered work
results from an entity transaction, each party to that transaction who
receives a copy of the work also receives whatever licenses to the work the
party's predecessor in interest had or could give under the previous
paragraph, plus a right to possession of the Corresponding Source of the work
from the predecessor in interest, if the predecessor has it or can get it with
reasonable efforts.

  You may not impose any further restrictions on the exercise of the rights
granted or affirmed under this License.  For example, you may not impose a
license fee, royalty, or other charge for exercise of rights granted under
this License, and you may not initiate litigation (including a cross-claim or
counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that any patent claim is infringed by
making, using, selling, offering for sale, or importing the Program or any
portion of it.

  11. Patents.

  A "contributor" is a copyright holder who authorizes use under this License
of the Program or a work on which the Program is based.  The work thus
licensed is called the contributor's "contributor version".

  A contributor's "essential patent claims" are all patent claims owned or
controlled by the contributor, whether already acquired or hereafter acquired,
that would be infringed by some manner, permitted by this License, of making,
using, or selling its contributor version, but do not include claims that
would be infringed only as a consequence of further modification of the
contributor version.  For purposes of this definition, "control" includes the
right to grant patent sublicenses in a manner consistent with the requirements
of this License.

  Each contributor grants you a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free patent
license under the contributor's essential patent claims, to make, use, sell,
offer for sale, import and otherwise run, modify and propagate the contents of
its contributor version.

  In the following three paragraphs, a "patent license" is any express
agreement or commitment, however denominated, not to enforce a patent (such as
an express permission to practice a patent or covenant not to sue for patent
infringement).  To "grant" such a patent license to a party means to make such
an agreement or commitment not to enforce a patent against the party.

  If you convey a covered work, knowingly relying on a patent license, and the
Corresponding Source of the work is not available for anyone to copy, free of
charge and under the terms of this License, through a publicly available
network server or other readily accessible means, then you must either (1)
cause the Corresponding Source to be so available, or (2) arrange to deprive
yourself of the benefit of the patent license for this particular work, or (3)
arrange, in a manner consistent with the requirements of this License, to
extend the patent license to downstream recipients.  "Knowingly relying" means
you have actual knowledge that, but for the patent license, your conveying the
covered work in a country, or your recipient's use of the covered work in a
country, would infringe one or more identifiable patents in that country that
you have reason to believe are valid.

  If, pursuant to or in connection with a single transaction or arrangement,
you convey, or propagate by procuring conveyance of, a covered work, and grant
a patent license to some of the parties receiving the covered work authorizing
them to use, propagate, modify or convey a specific copy of the covered work,
then the patent license you grant is automatically extended to all recipients
of the covered work and works based on it.

  A patent license is "discriminatory" if it does not include within the scope
of its coverage, prohibits the exercise of, or is conditioned on the
non-exercise of one or more of the rights that are specifically granted under
this License.  You may not convey a covered work if you are a party to an
arrangement with a third party that is in the business of distributing
software, under which you make payment to the third party based on the extent
of your activity of conveying the work, and under which the third party
grants, to any of the parties who would receive the covered work from you, a
discriminatory patent license (a) in connection with copies of the covered
work conveyed by you (or copies made from those copies), or (b) primarily for
and in connection with specific products or compilations that contain the
covered work, unless you entered into that arrangement, or that patent license
was granted, prior to 28 March 2007.

  Nothing in this License shall be construed as excluding or limiting any
implied license or other defenses to infringement that may otherwise be
available to you under applicable patent law.

  12. No Surrender of Others' Freedom.

  If conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or
otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not excuse
you from the conditions of this License.  If you cannot convey a covered work
so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this License and any
other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you may not convey it at
all.  For example, if you agree to terms that obligate you to collect a
royalty for further conveying from those to whom you convey the Program, the
only way you could satisfy both those terms and this License would be to
refrain entirely from conveying the Program.

  13. Use with the GNU Affero General Public License.

  Notwithstanding any other provision of this License, you have permission to
link or combine any covered work with a work licensed under version 3 of the
GNU Affero General Public License into a single combined work, and to convey
the resulting work.  The terms of this License will continue to apply to the
part which is the covered work, but the special requirements of the GNU Affero
General Public License, section 13, concerning interaction through a network
will apply to the combination as such.

  14. Revised Versions of this License.

  The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of the
GNU General Public License from time to time.  Such new versions will be
similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address
new problems or concerns.

  Each version is given a distinguishing version number.  If the Program
specifies that a certain numbered version of the GNU General Public License
"or any later version" applies to it, you have the option of following the
terms and conditions either of that numbered version or of any later version
published by the Free Software Foundation.  If the Program does not specify a
version number of the GNU General Public License, you may choose any version
ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

  If the Program specifies that a proxy can decide which future versions of
the GNU General Public License can be used, that proxy's public statement of
acceptance of a version permanently authorizes you to choose that version for
the Program.

  Later license versions may give you additional or different permissions.
However, no additional obligations are imposed on any author or copyright
holder as a result of your choosing to follow a later version.

  15. Disclaimer of Warranty.

  THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE
LAW.  EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR
OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE PROGRAM "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO
THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE PROGRAM IS WITH YOU.  SHOULD THE PROGRAM
PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR
CORRECTION.

  16. Limitation of Liability.

  IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING WILL
ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MODIFIES AND/OR CONVEYS THE
PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY
GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE
OR INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR
DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR
A FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH
HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

  17. Interpretation of Sections 15 and 16.

  If the disclaimer of warranty and limitation of liability provided above
cannot be given local legal effect according to their terms, reviewing courts
shall apply local law that most closely approximates an absolute waiver of all
civil liability in connection with the Program, unless a warranty or
assumption of liability accompanies a copy of the Program in return for a fee.

		     END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

	    How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

  If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest possible
use to the public, the best way to achieve this is to make it free software
which everyone can redistribute and change under these terms.

  To do so, attach the following notices to the program.  It is safest to
attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively state the
exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least the "copyright" line
and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

    <one line to give the program's name and a brief idea of what it does.>
Copyright (C) <year>  <name of author>

    This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any
later version.

    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

  If the program does terminal interaction, make it output a short notice like
this when it starts in an interactive mode:

    <program>  Copyright (C) <year>  <name of author> This program comes with
ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type `show w'.  This is free software, and
you are welcome to redistribute it under certain conditions; type `show c' for
details.

The hypothetical commands `show w' and `show c' should show the appropriate
parts of the General Public License.  Of course, your program's commands might
be different; for a GUI interface, you would use an "about box".

  You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or school,
if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if necessary. For
more information on this, and how to apply and follow the GNU GPL, see
<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

  The GNU General Public License does not permit incorporating your program
into proprietary programs.  If your program is a subroutine library, you may
consider it more useful to permit linking proprietary applications with the
library.  If this is what you want to do, use the GNU Lesser General Public
License instead of this License.  But first, please read
<http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/why-not-lgpl.html>.

-------------- SECTION 6: GNU General Public License, V2.0 -------------

		    GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE Version 2, June 1991

 Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street,
Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA Everyone is permitted to copy and
distribute verbatim copies of this license document, but changing it is not
allowed.

			    Preamble

  The licenses for most software are designed to take away your freedom to
share and change it.  By contrast, the GNU General Public License is intended
to guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to make sure the
software is free for all its users.  This General Public License applies to
most of the Free Software Foundation's software and to any other program whose
authors commit to using it.  (Some other Free Software Foundation software is
covered by the GNU Lesser General Public License instead.)  You can apply it
to your programs, too.

  When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not price.  Our
General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom to
distribute copies of free software (and charge for this service if you wish),
that you receive source code or can get it if you want it, that you can change
the software or use pieces of it in new free programs; and that you know you
can do these things.

  To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid anyone to
deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights.  These
restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you if you distribute
copies of the software, or if you modify it.

  For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether gratis or
for a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that you have.  You
must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code.  And you
must show them these terms so they know their rights.

  We protect your rights with two steps: (1) copyright the software, and (2)
offer you this license which gives you legal permission to copy, distribute
and/or modify the software.

  Also, for each author's protection and ours, we want to make certain that
everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free software.  If the
software is modified by someone else and passed on, we want its recipients to
know that what they have is not the original, so that any problems introduced
by others will not reflect on the original authors' reputations.

  Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software patents.  We
wish to avoid the danger that redistributors of a free program will
individually obtain patent licenses, in effect making the program proprietary.
To prevent this, we have made it clear that any patent must be licensed for
everyone's free use or not licensed at all.

  The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
follow.

		    GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR
COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

  0. This License applies to any program or other work which contains a notice
placed by the copyright holder saying it may be distributed under the terms of
this General Public License.  The "Program", below, refers to any such program
or work, and a "work based on the Program" means either the Program or any
derivative work under copyright law: that is to say, a work containing the
Program or a portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications and/or
translated into another language.  (Hereinafter, translation is included
without limitation in the term "modification".)  Each licensee is addressed as
"you".

Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not covered
by this License; they are outside its scope.  The act of running the Program
is not restricted, and the output from the Program is covered only if its
contents constitute a work based on the Program (independent of having been
made by running the Program).  Whether that is true depends on what the
Program does.

  1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Program's source code
as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and
appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice and
disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the notices that refer to this License
and to the absence of any warranty; and give any other recipients of the
Program a copy of this License along with the Program.

You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and you may
at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

  2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Program or any portion of it,
thus forming a work based on the Program, and copy and distribute such
modifications or work under the terms of Section 1 above, provided that you
also meet all of these conditions:

    a) You must cause the modified files to carry prominent notices stating
that you changed the files and the date of any change.

    b) You must cause any work that you distribute or publish, that in whole
or in part contains or is derived from the Program or any part thereof, to be
licensed as a whole at no charge to all third parties under the terms of this
License.

    c) If the modified program normally reads commands interactively when run,
you must cause it, when started running for such interactive use in the most
ordinary way, to print or display an announcement including an appropriate
copyright notice and a notice that there is no warranty (or else, saying that
you provide a warranty) and that users may redistribute the program under
these conditions, and telling the user how to view a copy of this License.
(Exception: if the Program itself is interactive but does not normally print
such an announcement, your work based on the Program is not required to print
an announcement.)

These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole.  If identifiable
sections of that work are not derived from the Program, and can be reasonably
considered independent and separate works in themselves, then this License,
and its terms, do not apply to those sections when you distribute them as
separate works.  But when you distribute the same sections as part of a whole
which is a work based on the Program, the distribution of the whole must be on
the terms of this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the
entire whole, and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest your
rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to exercise the
right to control the distribution of derivative or collective works based on
the Program.

In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Program with
the Program (or with a work based on the Program) on a volume of a storage or
distribution medium does not bring the other work under the scope of this
License.

  3. You may copy and distribute the Program (or a work based on it, under
Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of Sections 1 and
2 above provided that you also do one of the following:

    a) Accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable source
code, which must be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a
medium customarily used for software interchange; or,

    b) Accompany it with a written offer, valid for at least three years, to
give any third party, for a charge no more than your cost of physically
performing source distribution, a complete machine-readable copy of the
corresponding source code, to be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and
2 above on a medium customarily used for software interchange; or,

    c) Accompany it with the information you received as to the offer to
distribute corresponding source code.  (This alternative is allowed only for
noncommercial distribution and only if you received the program in object code
or executable form with such an offer, in accord with Subsection b above.)

The source code for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it.  For an executable work, complete source code means all
the source code for all modules it contains, plus any associated interface
definition files, plus the scripts used to control compilation and
installation of the executable.  However, as a special exception, the source
code distributed need not include anything that is normally distributed (in
either source or binary form) with the major components (compiler, kernel, and
so on) of the operating system on which the executable runs, unless that
component itself accompanies the executable.

If distribution of executable or object code is made by offering access to
copy from a designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the
source code from the same place counts as distribution of the source code,
even though third parties are not compelled to copy the source along with the
object code.

  4. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Program except as
expressly provided under this License.  Any attempt otherwise to copy, modify,
sublicense or distribute the Program is void, and will automatically terminate
your rights under this License.  However, parties who have received copies, or
rights, from you under this License will not have their licenses terminated so
long as such parties remain in full compliance.

  5. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not signed
it.  However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or distribute the
Program or its derivative works.  These actions are prohibited by law if you
do not accept this License.  Therefore, by modifying or distributing the
Program (or any work based on the Program), you indicate your acceptance of
this License to do so, and all its terms and conditions for copying,
distributing or modifying the Program or works based on it.

  6. Each time you redistribute the Program (or any work based on the
Program), the recipient automatically receives a license from the original
licensor to copy, distribute or modify the Program subject to these terms and
conditions.  You may not impose any further restrictions on the recipients'
exercise of the rights granted herein.  You are not responsible for enforcing
compliance by third parties to this License.

  7. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues),
conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or otherwise)
that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not excuse you from
the conditions of this License.  If you cannot distribute so as to satisfy
simultaneously your obligations under this License and any other pertinent
obligations, then as a consequence you may not distribute the Program at all.
For example, if a patent license would not permit royalty-free redistribution
of the Program by all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through
you, then the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to
refrain entirely from distribution of the Program.

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any
particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply and
the section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any patents or
other property right claims or to contest validity of any such claims; this
section has the sole purpose of protecting the integrity of the free software
distribution system, which is implemented by public license practices.  Many
people have made generous contributions to the wide range of software
distributed through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing to
distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot impose that
choice.

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to be a
consequence of the rest of this License.

  8. If the distribution and/or use of the Program is restricted in certain
countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the original
copyright holder who places the Program under this License may add an explicit
geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries, so that
distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus excluded.  In
such case, this License incorporates the limitation as if written in the body
of this License.

  9. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of
the General Public License from time to time.  Such new versions will be
similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address
new problems or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number.  If the Program
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and "any later
version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of
that version or of any later version published by the Free Software
Foundation.  If the Program does not specify a version number of this License,
you may choose any version ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

  10. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Program into other free programs
whose distribution conditions are different, write to the author to ask for
permission.  For software which is copyrighted by the Free Software
Foundation, write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make
exceptions for this.  Our decision will be guided by the two goals of
preserving the free status of all derivatives of our free software and of
promoting the sharing and reuse of software generally.

			    NO WARRANTY

  11. BECAUSE THE PROGRAM IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR
THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.  EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE
STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE
PROGRAM "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND
PERFORMANCE OF THE PROGRAM IS WITH YOU.  SHOULD THE PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE,
YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

  12. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR
REDISTRIBUTE THE PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES,
INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING
OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR
THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER PROGRAMS),
EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGES.

		     END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

	    How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

  If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest possible
use to the public, the best way to achieve this is to make it free software
which everyone can redistribute and change under these terms.

  To do so, attach the following notices to the program.  It is safest to
attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively convey the
exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least the "copyright" line
and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

    <one line to give the program's name and a brief idea of what it does.>
Copyright (C) <year>  <name of author>

    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any
later version.

    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51
Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

If the program is interactive, make it output a short notice like this when it
starts in an interactive mode:

    Gnomovision version 69, Copyright (C) year name of author Gnomovision
comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type `show w'.  This is free
software, and you are welcome to redistribute it under certain conditions;
type `show c' for details.

The hypothetical commands `show w' and `show c' should show the appropriate
parts of the General Public License.  Of course, the commands you use may be
called something other than `show w' and `show c'; they could even be
mouse-clicks or menu items--whatever suits your program.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your
school, if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if
necessary.  Here is a sample; alter the names:

  Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the program
`Gnomovision' (which makes passes at compilers) written by James Hacker.

  <signature of Ty Coon>, 1 April 1989 Ty Coon, President of Vice

This General Public License does not permit incorporating your program into
proprietary programs.  If your program is a subroutine library, you may
consider it more useful to permit linking proprietary applications with the
library.  If this is what you want to do, use the GNU Lesser General Public
License instead of this License.

--------- SECTION 7: GNU Library General Public License, V2.0 ---------

	     GNU LIBRARY GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE Version 2, June 1991

 Copyright (C) 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.  51 Franklin Street, Fifth
Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301 USA.  Everyone is permitted to copy and
distribute verbatim copies of this license document, but changing it is not
allowed.

[This is the first released version of the library GPL.  It is numbered 2
because it goes with version 2 of the ordinary GPL.]

			    Preamble

  The licenses for most software are designed to take away your freedom to
share and change it.  By contrast, the GNU General Public Licenses are
intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to make
sure the software is free for all its users.

  This license, the Library General Public License, applies to some specially
designated Free Software Foundation software, and to any other libraries whose
authors decide to use it.  You can use it for your libraries, too.

  When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not price.  Our
General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom to
distribute copies of free software (and charge for this service if you wish),
that you receive source code or can get it if you want it, that you can change
the software or use pieces of it in new free programs; and that you know you
can do these things.

  To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid anyone to
deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights.  These
restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you if you distribute
copies of the library, or if you modify it.

  For example, if you distribute copies of the library, whether gratis or for
a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that we gave you.  You must
make sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code.  If you link a
program with the library, you must provide complete object files to the
recipients so that they can relink them with the library, after making changes
to the library and recompiling it.  And you must show them these terms so they
know their rights.

  Our method of protecting your rights has two steps: (1) copyright the
library, and (2) offer you this license which gives you legal permission to
copy, distribute and/or modify the library.

  Also, for each distributor's protection, we want to make certain that
everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free library.  If the
library is modified by someone else and passed on, we want its recipients to
know that what they have is not the original version, so that any problems
introduced by others will not reflect on the original authors' reputations.

  Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software patents.  We
wish to avoid the danger that companies distributing free software will
individually obtain patent licenses, thus in effect transforming the program
into proprietary software.  To prevent this, we have made it clear that any
patent must be licensed for everyone's free use or not licensed at all.

  Most GNU software, including some libraries, is covered by the ordinary GNU
General Public License, which was designed for utility programs.  This
license, the GNU Library General Public License, applies to certain designated
libraries.  This license is quite different from the ordinary one; be sure to
read it in full, and don't assume that anything in it is the same as in the
ordinary license.

  The reason we have a separate public license for some libraries is that they
blur the distinction we usually make between modifying or adding to a program
and simply using it.  Linking a program with a library, without changing the
library, is in some sense simply using the library, and is analogous to
running a utility program or application program.  However, in a textual and
legal sense, the linked executable is a combined work, a derivative of the
original library, and the ordinary General Public License treats it as such.

  Because of this blurred distinction, using the ordinary General Public
License for libraries did not effectively promote software sharing, because
most developers did not use the libraries.  We concluded that weaker
conditions might promote sharing better.

  However, unrestricted linking of non-free programs would deprive the users
of those programs of all benefit from the free status of the libraries
themselves.  This Library General Public License is intended to permit
developers of non-free programs to use free libraries, while preserving your
freedom as a user of such programs to change the free libraries that are
incorporated in them.  (We have not seen how to achieve this as regards
changes in header files, but we have achieved it as regards changes in the
actual functions of the Library.)  The hope is that this will lead to faster
development of free libraries.

  The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
follow.  Pay close attention to the difference between a "work based on the
library" and a "work that uses the library".  The former contains code derived
from the library, while the latter only works together with the library.

  Note that it is possible for a library to be covered by the ordinary General
Public License rather than by this special one.

		  GNU LIBRARY GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR
COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

  0. This License Agreement applies to any software library which contains a
notice placed by the copyright holder or other authorized party saying it may
be distributed under the terms of this Library General Public License (also
called "this License").  Each licensee is addressed as "you".

  A "library" means a collection of software functions and/or data prepared so
as to be conveniently linked with application programs (which use some of
those functions and data) to form executables.

  The "Library", below, refers to any such software library or work which has
been distributed under these terms.  A "work based on the Library" means
either the Library or any derivative work under copyright law: that is to say,
a work containing the Library or a portion of it, either verbatim or with
modifications and/or translated straightforwardly into another language.
(Hereinafter, translation is included without limitation in the term
"modification".)

  "Source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it.  For a library, complete source code means all the source
code for all modules it contains, plus any associated interface definition
files, plus the scripts used to control compilation and installation of the
library.

  Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not covered
by this License; they are outside its scope.  The act of running a program
using the Library is not restricted, and output from such a program is covered
only if its contents constitute a work based on the Library (independent of
the use of the Library in a tool for writing it).  Whether that is true
depends on what the Library does and what the program that uses the Library
does.
  
  1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Library's complete
source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously
and appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice and
disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the notices that refer to this License
and to the absence of any warranty; and distribute a copy of this License
along with the Library.

  You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and you
may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

  2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Library or any portion of it,
thus forming a work based on the Library, and copy and distribute such
modifications or work under the terms of Section 1 above, provided that you
also meet all of these conditions:

    a) The modified work must itself be a software library.

    b) You must cause the files modified to carry prominent notices stating
that you changed the files and the date of any change.

    c) You must cause the whole of the work to be licensed at no charge to all
third parties under the terms of this License.

    d) If a facility in the modified Library refers to a function or a table
of data to be supplied by an application program that uses the facility, other
than as an argument passed when the facility is invoked, then you must make a
good faith effort to ensure that, in the event an application does not supply
such function or table, the facility still operates, and performs whatever
part of its purpose remains meaningful.

    (For example, a function in a library to compute square roots has a
purpose that is entirely well-defined independent of the application.
Therefore, Subsection 2d requires that any application-supplied function or
table used by this function must be optional: if the application does not
supply it, the square root function must still compute square roots.)

These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole.  If identifiable
sections of that work are not derived from the Library, and can be reasonably
considered independent and separate works in themselves, then this License,
and its terms, do not apply to those sections when you distribute them as
separate works.  But when you distribute the same sections as part of a whole
which is a work based on the Library, the distribution of the whole must be on
the terms of this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the
entire whole, and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest your
rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to exercise the
right to control the distribution of derivative or collective works based on
the Library.

In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Library with
the Library (or with a work based on the Library) on a volume of a storage or
distribution medium does not bring the other work under the scope of this
License.

  3. You may opt to apply the terms of the ordinary GNU General Public License
instead of this License to a given copy of the Library.  To do this, you must
alter all the notices that refer to this License, so that they refer to the
ordinary GNU General Public License, version 2, instead of to this License.
(If a newer version than version 2 of the ordinary GNU General Public License
has appeared, then you can specify that version instead if you wish.)  Do not
make any other change in these notices.

  Once this change is made in a given copy, it is irreversible for that copy,
so the ordinary GNU General Public License applies to all subsequent copies
and derivative works made from that copy.

  This option is useful when you wish to copy part of the code of the Library
into a program that is not a library.

  4. You may copy and distribute the Library (or a portion or derivative of
it, under Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of
Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you accompany it with the complete
corresponding machine-readable source code, which must be distributed under
the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium customarily used for software
interchange.

  If distribution of object code is made by offering access to copy from a
designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the source code from
the same place satisfies the requirement to distribute the source code, even
though third parties are not compelled to copy the source along with the
object code.

  5. A program that contains no derivative of any portion of the Library, but
is designed to work with the Library by being compiled or linked with it, is
called a "work that uses the Library".  Such a work, in isolation, is not a
derivative work of the Library, and therefore falls outside the scope of this
License.

  However, linking a "work that uses the Library" with the Library creates an
executable that is a derivative of the Library (because it contains portions
of the Library), rather than a "work that uses the library".  The executable
is therefore covered by this License.  Section 6 states terms for distribution
of such executables.

  When a "work that uses the Library" uses material from a header file that is
part of the Library, the object code for the work may be a derivative work of
the Library even though the source code is not.  Whether this is true is
especially significant if the work can be linked without the Library, or if
the work is itself a library.  The threshold for this to be true is not
precisely defined by law.

  If such an object file uses only numerical parameters, data structure
layouts and accessors, and small macros and small inline functions (ten lines
or less in length), then the use of the object file is unrestricted,
regardless of whether it is legally a derivative work.  (Executables
containing this object code plus portions of the Library will still fall under
Section 6.)

  Otherwise, if the work is a derivative of the Library, you may distribute
the object code for the work under the terms of Section 6.  Any executables
containing that work also fall under Section 6, whether or not they are linked
directly with the Library itself.

  6. As an exception to the Sections above, you may also compile or link a
"work that uses the Library" with the Library to produce a work containing
portions of the Library, and distribute that work under terms of your choice,
provided that the terms permit modification of the work for the customer's own
use and reverse engineering for debugging such modifications.

  You must give prominent notice with each copy of the work that the Library
is used in it and that the Library and its use are covered by this License.
You must supply a copy of this License.  If the work during execution displays
copyright notices, you must include the copyright notice for the Library among
them, as well as a reference directing the user to the copy of this License.
Also, you must do one of these things:

    a) Accompany the work with the complete corresponding machine-readable
source code for the Library including whatever changes were used in the work
(which must be distributed under Sections 1 and 2 above); and, if the work is
an executable linked with the Library, with the complete machine-readable
"work that uses the Library", as object code and/or source code, so that the
user can modify the Library and then relink to produce a modified executable
containing the modified Library.  (It is understood that the user who changes
the contents of definitions files in the Library will not necessarily be able
to recompile the application to use the modified definitions.)

    b) Accompany the work with a written offer, valid for at least three
years, to give the same user the materials specified in Subsection 6a, above,
for a charge no more than the cost of performing this distribution.

    c) If distribution of the work is made by offering access to copy from a
designated place, offer equivalent access to copy the above specified
materials from the same place.

    d) Verify that the user has already received a copy of these materials or
that you have already sent this user a copy.

  For an executable, the required form of the "work that uses the Library"
must include any data and utility programs needed for reproducing the
executable from it.  However, as a special exception, the source code
distributed need not include anything that is normally distributed (in either
source or binary form) with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on)
of the operating system on which the executable runs, unless that component
itself accompanies the executable.

  It may happen that this requirement contradicts the license restrictions of
other proprietary libraries that do not normally accompany the operating
system.  Such a contradiction means you cannot use both them and the Library
together in an executable that you distribute.

  7. You may place library facilities that are a work based on the Library
side-by-side in a single library together with other library facilities not
covered by this License, and distribute such a combined library, provided that
the separate distribution of the work based on the Library and of the other
library facilities is otherwise permitted, and provided that you do these two
things:

    a) Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work based on
the Library, uncombined with any other library facilities.  This must be
distributed under the terms of the Sections above.

    b) Give prominent notice with the combined library of the fact that part
of it is a work based on the Library, and explaining where to find the
accompanying uncombined form of the same work.

  8. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the
Library except as expressly provided under this License.  Any attempt
otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the Library is
void, and will automatically terminate your rights under this License.
However, parties who have received copies, or rights, from you under this
License will not have their licenses terminated so long as such parties remain
in full compliance.

  9. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not signed
it.  However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or distribute the
Library or its derivative works.  These actions are prohibited by law if you
do not accept this License.  Therefore, by modifying or distributing the
Library (or any work based on the Library), you indicate your acceptance of
this License to do so, and all its terms and conditions for copying,
distributing or modifying the Library or works based on it.

  10. Each time you redistribute the Library (or any work based on the
Library), the recipient automatically receives a license from the original
licensor to copy, distribute, link with or modify the Library subject to these
terms and conditions.  You may not impose any further restrictions on the
recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein.  You are not responsible
for enforcing compliance by third parties to this License.

  11. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues),
conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or otherwise)
that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not excuse you from
the conditions of this License.  If you cannot distribute so as to satisfy
simultaneously your obligations under this License and any other pertinent
obligations, then as a consequence you may not distribute the Library at all.
For example, if a patent license would not permit royalty-free redistribution
of the Library by all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through
you, then the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to
refrain entirely from distribution of the Library.

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any
particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply, and
the section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any patents or
other property right claims or to contest validity of any such claims; this
section has the sole purpose of protecting the integrity of the free software
distribution system which is implemented by public license practices.  Many
people have made generous contributions to the wide range of software
distributed through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing to
distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot impose that
choice.

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to be a
consequence of the rest of this License.

  12. If the distribution and/or use of the Library is restricted in certain
countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the original
copyright holder who places the Library under this License may add an explicit
geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries, so that
distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus excluded.  In
such case, this License incorporates the limitation as if written in the body
of this License.

  13. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of
the Library General Public License from time to time.  Such new versions will
be similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to
address new problems or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number.  If the Library
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and "any later
version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of
that version or of any later version published by the Free Software
Foundation.  If the Library does not specify a license version number, you may
choose any version ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

  14. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Library into other free programs
whose distribution conditions are incompatible with these, write to the author
to ask for permission.  For software which is copyrighted by the Free Software
Foundation, write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make
exceptions for this.  Our decision will be guided by the two goals of
preserving the free status of all derivatives of our free software and of
promoting the sharing and reuse of software generally.

			    NO WARRANTY

  15. BECAUSE THE LIBRARY IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR
THE LIBRARY, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.  EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE
STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE
LIBRARY "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND
PERFORMANCE OF THE LIBRARY IS WITH YOU.  SHOULD THE LIBRARY PROVE DEFECTIVE,
YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

  16. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR
REDISTRIBUTE THE LIBRARY AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES,
INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING
OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE LIBRARY (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR
THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF THE LIBRARY TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE),
EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGES.

		     END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

	   How to Apply These Terms to Your New Libraries

  If you develop a new library, and you want it to be of the greatest possible
use to the public, we recommend making it free software that everyone can
redistribute and change.  You can do so by permitting redistribution under
these terms (or, alternatively, under the terms of the ordinary General Public
License).

  To apply these terms, attach the following notices to the library.  It is
safest to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively
convey the exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least the
"copyright" line and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

    <one line to give the library's name and a brief idea of what it does.>
Copyright (C) <year>  <name of author>

    This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU Library General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.

    This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU Library General Public License
for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public License
along with this library; if not, write to the Free Foundation, Inc., 51
Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110- 1301 USA

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your
school, if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the library, if
necessary.  Here is a sample; alter the names:

  Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the library
`Frob' (a library for tweaking knobs) written by James Random Hacker.

  <signature of Ty Coon>, 1 April 1990 Ty Coon, President of Vice

That's all there is to it!

--------- SECTION 8: GNU Lesser General Public License, V2.1 ----------

	      GNU LESSER GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE Version 2.1, February 1999

 Copyright (C) 1991, 1999 Free Software Foundation, Inc.  51 Franklin Street,
Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301 USA.  Everyone is permitted to copy and
distribute verbatim copies of this license document, but changing it is not
allowed.

[This is the first released version of the Lesser GPL.  It also counts as the
successor of the GNU Library Public License, version 2, hence the version
number 2.1.]

			    Preamble

  The licenses for most software are designed to take away your freedom to
share and change it.  By contrast, the GNU General Public Licenses are
intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to make
sure the software is free for all its users.

  This license, the Lesser General Public License, applies to some specially
designated software packages--typically libraries--of the Free Software
Foundation and other authors who decide to use it.  You can use it too, but we
suggest you first think carefully about whether this license or the ordinary
General Public License is the better strategy to use in any particular case,
based on the explanations below.

  When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom of use, not
price.  Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have
the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge for this service
if you wish); that you receive source code or can get it if you want it; that
you can change the software and use pieces of it in new free programs; and
that you are informed that you can do these things.

  To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid
distributors to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender these rights.
These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you if you
distribute copies of the library or if you modify it.

  For example, if you distribute copies of the library, whether gratis or for
a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that we gave you.  You must
make sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code.  If you link
other code with the library, you must provide complete object files to the
recipients, so that they can relink them with the library after making changes
to the library and recompiling it.  And you must show them these terms so they
know their rights.

  We protect your rights with a two-step method: (1) we copyright the library,
and (2) we offer you this license, which gives you legal permission to copy,
distribute and/or modify the library.

  To protect each distributor, we want to make it very clear that there is no
warranty for the free library.  Also, if the library is modified by someone
else and passed on, the recipients should know that what they have is not the
original version, so that the original author's reputation will not be
affected by problems that might be introduced by others.

  Finally, software patents pose a constant threat to the existence of any
free program.  We wish to make sure that a company cannot effectively restrict
the users of a free program by obtaining a restrictive license from a patent
holder.  Therefore, we insist that any patent license obtained for a version
of the library must be consistent with the full freedom of use specified in
this license.

  Most GNU software, including some libraries, is covered by the ordinary GNU
General Public License.  This license, the GNU Lesser General Public License,
applies to certain designated libraries, and is quite different from the
ordinary General Public License.  We use this license for certain libraries in
order to permit linking those libraries into non-free programs.

  When a program is linked with a library, whether statically or using a
shared library, the combination of the two is legally speaking a combined
work, a derivative of the original library.  The ordinary General Public
License therefore permits such linking only if the entire combination fits its
criteria of freedom.  The Lesser General Public License permits more lax
criteria for linking other code with the library.

  We call this license the "Lesser" General Public License because it does
Less to protect the user's freedom than the ordinary General Public License.
It also provides other free software developers Less of an advantage over
competing non-free programs.  These disadvantages are the reason we use the
ordinary General Public License for many libraries.  However, the Lesser
license provides advantages in certain special circumstances.

  For example, on rare occasions, there may be a special need to encourage the
widest possible use of a certain library, so that it becomes a de-facto
standard.  To achieve this, non-free programs must be allowed to use the
library.  A more frequent case is that a free library does the same job as
widely used non-free libraries.  In this case, there is little to gain by
limiting the free library to free software only, so we use the Lesser General
Public License.

  In other cases, permission to use a particular library in non-free programs
enables a greater number of people to use a large body of free software.  For
example, permission to use the GNU C Library in non-free programs enables many
more people to use the whole GNU operating system, as well as its variant, the
GNU/Linux operating system.

  Although the Lesser General Public License is Less protective of the users'
freedom, it does ensure that the user of a program that is linked with the
Library has the freedom and the wherewithal to run that program using a
modified version of the Library.

  The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
follow.  Pay close attention to the difference between a "work based on the
library" and a "work that uses the library".  The former contains code derived
from the library, whereas the latter must be combined with the library in
order to run.

		  GNU LESSER GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR
COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

  0. This License Agreement applies to any software library or other program
which contains a notice placed by the copyright holder or other authorized
party saying it may be distributed under the terms of this Lesser General
Public License (also called "this License").  Each licensee is addressed as
"you".

  A "library" means a collection of software functions and/or data prepared so
as to be conveniently linked with application programs (which use some of
those functions and data) to form executables.

  The "Library", below, refers to any such software library or work which has
been distributed under these terms.  A "work based on the Library" means
either the Library or any derivative work under copyright law: that is to say,
a work containing the Library or a portion of it, either verbatim or with
modifications and/or translated straightforwardly into another language.
(Hereinafter, translation is included without limitation in the term
"modification".)

  "Source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it.  For a library, complete source code means all the source
code for all modules it contains, plus any associated interface definition
files, plus the scripts used to control compilation and installation of the
library.

  Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not covered
by this License; they are outside its scope.  The act of running a program
using the Library is not restricted, and output from such a program is covered
only if its contents constitute a work based on the Library (independent of
the use of the Library in a tool for writing it).  Whether that is true
depends on what the Library does and what the program that uses the Library
does.

  1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Library's complete
source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously
and appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice and
disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the notices that refer to this License
and to the absence of any warranty; and distribute a copy of this License
along with the Library.

  You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and you
may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

  2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Library or any portion of it,
thus forming a work based on the Library, and copy and distribute such
modifications or work under the terms of Section 1 above, provided that you
also meet all of these conditions:

    a) The modified work must itself be a software library.

    b) You must cause the files modified to carry prominent notices stating
that you changed the files and the date of any change.

    c) You must cause the whole of the work to be licensed at no charge to all
third parties under the terms of this License.

    d) If a facility in the modified Library refers to a function or a table
of data to be supplied by an application program that uses the facility, other
than as an argument passed when the facility is invoked, then you must make a
good faith effort to ensure that, in the event an application does not supply
such function or table, the facility still operates, and performs whatever
part of its purpose remains meaningful.

    (For example, a function in a library to compute square roots has a
purpose that is entirely well-defined independent of the application.
Therefore, Subsection 2d requires that any application-supplied function or
table used by this function must be optional: if the application does not
supply it, the square root function must still compute square roots.)

These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole.  If identifiable
sections of that work are not derived from the Library, and can be reasonably
considered independent and separate works in themselves, then this License,
and its terms, do not apply to those sections when you distribute them as
separate works.  But when you distribute the same sections as part of a whole
which is a work based on the Library, the distribution of the whole must be on
the terms of this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the
entire whole, and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest your
rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to exercise the
right to control the distribution of derivative or collective works based on
the Library.

In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Library with
the Library (or with a work based on the Library) on a volume of a storage or
distribution medium does not bring the other work under the scope of this
License.

  3. You may opt to apply the terms of the ordinary GNU General Public License
instead of this License to a given copy of the Library.  To do this, you must
alter all the notices that refer to this License, so that they refer to the
ordinary GNU General Public License, version 2, instead of to this License.
(If a newer version than version 2 of the ordinary GNU General Public License
has appeared, then you can specify that version instead if you wish.)  Do not
make any other change in these notices.

  Once this change is made in a given copy, it is irreversible for that copy,
so the ordinary GNU General Public License applies to all subsequent copies
and derivative works made from that copy.

  This option is useful when you wish to copy part of the code of the Library
into a program that is not a library.

  4. You may copy and distribute the Library (or a portion or derivative of
it, under Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of
Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you accompany it with the complete
corresponding machine-readable source code, which must be distributed under
the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium customarily used for software
interchange.

  If distribution of object code is made by offering access to copy from a
designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the source code from
the same place satisfies the requirement to distribute the source code, even
though third parties are not compelled to copy the source along with the
object code.

  5. A program that contains no derivative of any portion of the Library, but
is designed to work with the Library by being compiled or linked with it, is
called a "work that uses the Library".  Such a work, in isolation, is not a
derivative work of the Library, and therefore falls outside the scope of this
License.

  However, linking a "work that uses the Library" with the Library creates an
executable that is a derivative of the Library (because it contains portions
of the Library), rather than a "work that uses the library".  The executable
is therefore covered by this License.  Section 6 states terms for distribution
of such executables.

  When a "work that uses the Library" uses material from a header file that is
part of the Library, the object code for the work may be a derivative work of
the Library even though the source code is not.  Whether this is true is
especially significant if the work can be linked without the Library, or if
the work is itself a library.  The threshold for this to be true is not
precisely defined by law.

  If such an object file uses only numerical parameters, data structure
layouts and accessors, and small macros and small inline functions (ten lines
or less in length), then the use of the object file is unrestricted,
regardless of whether it is legally a derivative work.  (Executables
containing this object code plus portions of the Library will still fall under
Section 6.)

  Otherwise, if the work is a derivative of the Library, you may distribute
the object code for the work under the terms of Section 6.  Any executables
containing that work also fall under Section 6, whether or not they are linked
directly with the Library itself.

  6. As an exception to the Sections above, you may also combine or link a
"work that uses the Library" with the Library to produce a work containing
portions of the Library, and distribute that work under terms of your choice,
provided that the terms permit modification of the work for the customer's own
use and reverse engineering for debugging such modifications.

  You must give prominent notice with each copy of the work that the Library
is used in it and that the Library and its use are covered by this License.
You must supply a copy of this License.  If the work during execution displays
copyright notices, you must include the copyright notice for the Library among
them, as well as a reference directing the user to the copy of this License.
Also, you must do one of these things:

    a) Accompany the work with the complete corresponding machine-readable
source code for the Library including whatever changes were used in the work
(which must be distributed under Sections 1 and 2 above); and, if the work is
an executable linked with the Library, with the complete machine-readable
"work that uses the Library", as object code and/or source code, so that the
user can modify the Library and then relink to produce a modified executable
containing the modified Library.  (It is understood that the user who changes
the contents of definitions files in the Library will not necessarily be able
to recompile the application to use the modified definitions.)

    b) Use a suitable shared library mechanism for linking with the Library.
A suitable mechanism is one that (1) uses at run time a copy of the library
already present on the user's computer system, rather than copying library
functions into the executable, and (2) will operate properly with a modified
version of the library, if the user installs one, as long as the modified
version is interface-compatible with the version that the work was made with.

    c) Accompany the work with a written offer, valid for at least three
years, to give the same user the materials specified in Subsection 6a, above,
for a charge no more than the cost of performing this distribution.

    d) If distribution of the work is made by offering access to copy from a
designated place, offer equivalent access to copy the above specified
materials from the same place.

    e) Verify that the user has already received a copy of these materials or
that you have already sent this user a copy.

  For an executable, the required form of the "work that uses the Library"
must include any data and utility programs needed for reproducing the
executable from it.  However, as a special exception, the materials to be
distributed need not include anything that is normally distributed (in either
source or binary form) with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on)
of the operating system on which the executable runs, unless that component
itself accompanies the executable.

  It may happen that this requirement contradicts the license restrictions of
other proprietary libraries that do not normally accompany the operating
system.  Such a contradiction means you cannot use both them and the Library
together in an executable that you distribute.

  7. You may place library facilities that are a work based on the Library
side-by-side in a single library together with other library facilities not
covered by this License, and distribute such a combined library, provided that
the separate distribution of the work based on the Library and of the other
library facilities is otherwise permitted, and provided that you do these two
things:

    a) Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work based on
the Library, uncombined with any other library facilities.  This must be
distributed under the terms of the Sections above.

    b) Give prominent notice with the combined library of the fact that part
of it is a work based on the Library, and explaining where to find the
accompanying uncombined form of the same work.

  8. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the
Library except as expressly provided under this License.  Any attempt
otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the Library is
void, and will automatically terminate your rights under this License.
However, parties who have received copies, or rights, from you under this
License will not have their licenses terminated so long as such parties remain
in full compliance.

  9. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not signed
it.  However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or distribute the
Library or its derivative works.  These actions are prohibited by law if you
do not accept this License.  Therefore, by modifying or distributing the
Library (or any work based on the Library), you indicate your acceptance of
this License to do so, and all its terms and conditions for copying,
distributing or modifying the Library or works based on it.

  10. Each time you redistribute the Library (or any work based on the
Library), the recipient automatically receives a license from the original
licensor to copy, distribute, link with or modify the Library subject to these
terms and conditions.  You may not impose any further restrictions on the
recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein.  You are not responsible
for enforcing compliance by third parties with this License.

  11. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues),
conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or otherwise)
that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not excuse you from
the conditions of this License.  If you cannot distribute so as to satisfy
simultaneously your obligations under this License and any other pertinent
obligations, then as a consequence you may not distribute the Library at all.
For example, if a patent license would not permit royalty-free redistribution
of the Library by all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through
you, then the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to
refrain entirely from distribution of the Library.

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any
particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply, and
the section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any patents or
other property right claims or to contest validity of any such claims; this
section has the sole purpose of protecting the integrity of the free software
distribution system which is implemented by public license practices.  Many
people have made generous contributions to the wide range of software
distributed through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing to
distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot impose that
choice.

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to be a
consequence of the rest of this License.

  12. If the distribution and/or use of the Library is restricted in certain
countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the original
copyright holder who places the Library under this License may add an explicit
geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries, so that
distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus excluded.  In
such case, this License incorporates the limitation as if written in the body
of this License.

  13. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of
the Lesser General Public License from time to time.  Such new versions will
be similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to
address new problems or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number.  If the Library
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and "any later
version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of
that version or of any later version published by the Free Software
Foundation.  If the Library does not specify a license version number, you may
choose any version ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

  14. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Library into other free programs
whose distribution conditions are incompatible with these, write to the author
to ask for permission.  For software which is copyrighted by the Free Software
Foundation, write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make
exceptions for this.  Our decision will be guided by the two goals of
preserving the free status of all derivatives of our free software and of
promoting the sharing and reuse of software generally.

			    NO WARRANTY

  15. BECAUSE THE LIBRARY IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR
THE LIBRARY, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.  EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE
STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE
LIBRARY "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND
PERFORMANCE OF THE LIBRARY IS WITH YOU.  SHOULD THE LIBRARY PROVE DEFECTIVE,
YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

  16. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR
REDISTRIBUTE THE LIBRARY AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES,
INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING
OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE LIBRARY (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR
THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF THE LIBRARY TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE),
EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGES.

		     END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

	   How to Apply These Terms to Your New Libraries

  If you develop a new library, and you want it to be of the greatest possible
use to the public, we recommend making it free software that everyone can
redistribute and change.  You can do so by permitting redistribution under
these terms (or, alternatively, under the terms of the ordinary General Public
License).

  To apply these terms, attach the following notices to the library.  It is
safest to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively
convey the exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least the
"copyright" line and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

    <one line to give the library's name and a brief idea of what it does.>
Copyright (C) <year>  <name of author>

    This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

    This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU Lesser General Public License
for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License
along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110- 1301 USA

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your
school, if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the library, if
necessary.  Here is a sample; alter the names:

  Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the library
`Frob' (a library for tweaking knobs) written by James Random Hacker.

  <signature of Ty Coon>, 1 April 1990 Ty Coon, President of Vice

That's all there is to it!

---------- SECTION 9: GNU Lesser General Public License, V3.0 ----------

		 GNU LESSER GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE Version 3, 29 June 2007

 Copyright (C) 2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc. <http://fsf.org/> Everyone
is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license document,
but changing it is not allowed.


  This version of the GNU Lesser General Public License incorporates the terms
and conditions of version 3 of the GNU General Public License, supplemented by
the additional permissions listed below.

  0. Additional Definitions.

  As used herein, "this License" refers to version 3 of the GNU Lesser General
Public License, and the "GNU GPL" refers to version 3 of the GNU General
Public License.

  "The Library" refers to a covered work governed by this License, other than
an Application or a Combined Work as defined below.

  An "Application" is any work that makes use of an interface provided by the
Library, but which is not otherwise based on the Library.  Defining a subclass
of a class defined by the Library is deemed a mode of using an interface
provided by the Library.

  A "Combined Work" is a work produced by combining or linking an Application
with the Library.  The particular version of the Library with which the
Combined Work was made is also called the "Linked Version".

  The "Minimal Corresponding Source" for a Combined Work means the
Corresponding Source for the Combined Work, excluding any source code for
portions of the Combined Work that, considered in isolation, are based on the
Application, and not on the Linked Version.

  The "Corresponding Application Code" for a Combined Work means the object
code and/or source code for the Application, including any data and utility
programs needed for reproducing the Combined Work from the Application, but
excluding the System Libraries of the Combined Work.

  1. Exception to Section 3 of the GNU GPL.

  You may convey a covered work under sections 3 and 4 of this License without
being bound by section 3 of the GNU GPL.

  2. Conveying Modified Versions.

  If you modify a copy of the Library, and, in your modifications, a facility
refers to a function or data to be supplied by an Application that uses the
facility (other than as an argument passed when the facility is invoked), then
you may convey a copy of the modified version:

   a) under this License, provided that you make a good faith effort to ensure
that, in the event an Application does not supply the function or data, the
facility still operates, and performs whatever part of its purpose remains
meaningful, or

   b) under the GNU GPL, with none of the additional permissions of this
License applicable to that copy.

  3. Object Code Incorporating Material from Library Header Files.

  The object code form of an Application may incorporate material from a
header file that is part of the Library.  You may convey such object code
under terms of your choice, provided that, if the incorporated material is not
limited to numerical parameters, data structure layouts and accessors, or
small macros, inline functions and templates (ten or fewer lines in length),
you do both of the following:

   a) Give prominent notice with each copy of the object code that the Library
is used in it and that the Library and its use are covered by this License.

   b) Accompany the object code with a copy of the GNU GPL and this license
document.

  4. Combined Works.

  You may convey a Combined Work under terms of your choice that, taken
together, effectively do not restrict modification of the portions of the
Library contained in the Combined Work and reverse engineering for debugging
such modifications, if you also do each of the following:

   a) Give prominent notice with each copy of the Combined Work that the
Library is used in it and that the Library and its use are covered by this
License.

   b) Accompany the Combined Work with a copy of the GNU GPL and this license
document.

   c) For a Combined Work that displays copyright notices during execution,
include the copyright notice for the Library among these notices, as well as a
reference directing the user to the copies of the GNU GPL and this license
document.

   d) Do one of the following:

       0) Convey the Minimal Corresponding Source under the terms of this
License, and the Corresponding Application Code in a form suitable for, and
under terms that permit, the user to recombine or relink the Application with
a modified version of the Linked Version to produce a modified Combined Work,
in the manner specified by section 6 of the GNU GPL for conveying
Corresponding Source.

       1) Use a suitable shared library mechanism for linking with the
Library.  A suitable mechanism is one that (a) uses at run time a copy of the
Library already present on the user's computer system, and (b) will operate
properly with a modified version of the Library that is interface-compatible
with the Linked Version.

   e) Provide Installation Information, but only if you would otherwise be
required to provide such information under section 6 of the GNU GPL, and only
to the extent that such information is necessary to install and execute a
modified version of the Combined Work produced by recombining or relinking the
Application with a modified version of the Linked Version. (If you use option
4d0, the Installation Information must accompany the Minimal Corresponding
Source and Corresponding Application Code. If you use option 4d1, you must
provide the Installation Information in the manner specified by section 6 of
the GNU GPL for conveying Corresponding Source.)

  5. Combined Libraries.

  You may place library facilities that are a work based on the Library side
by side in a single library together with other library facilities that are
not Applications and are not covered by this License, and convey such a
combined library under terms of your choice, if you do both of the following:

   a) Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work based on the
Library, uncombined with any other library facilities, conveyed under the
terms of this License.

   b) Give prominent notice with the combined library that part of it is a
work based on the Library, and explaining where to find the accompanying
uncombined form of the same work.

  6. Revised Versions of the GNU Lesser General Public License.

  The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of the
GNU Lesser General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will be
similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address
new problems or concerns.

  Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Library as you
received it specifies that a certain numbered version of the GNU Lesser
General Public License "or any later version" applies to it, you have the
option of following the terms and conditions either of that published version
or of any later version published by the Free Software Foundation. If the
Library as you received it does not specify a version number of the GNU Lesser
General Public License, you may choose any version of the GNU Lesser General
Public License ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

  If the Library as you received it specifies that a proxy can decide whether
future versions of the GNU Lesser General Public License shall apply, that
proxy's public statement of acceptance of any version is permanent
authorization for you to choose that version for the Library.

----------- SECTION 10: GNU AFFERO GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE V3.0 ----------

		    GNU AFFERO GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE Version 3, 19 November
2007

 Copyright (C) 2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc. <http://fsf.org/> Everyone
is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license document,
but changing it is not allowed.

			    Preamble

  The GNU Affero General Public License is a free, copyleft license for
software and other kinds of works, specifically designed to ensure cooperation
with the community in the case of network server software.

  The licenses for most software and other practical works are designed to
take away your freedom to share and change the works.  By contrast, our
General Public Licenses are intended to guarantee your freedom to share and
change all versions of a program--to make sure it remains free software for
all its users.

  When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not price.  Our
General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom to
distribute copies of free software (and charge for them if you wish), that you
receive source code or can get it if you want it, that you can change the
software or use pieces of it in new free programs, and that you know you can
do these things.

  Developers that use our General Public Licenses protect your rights with two
steps: (1) assert copyright on the software, and (2) offer you this License
which gives you legal permission to copy, distribute and/or modify the
software.

  A secondary benefit of defending all users' freedom is that improvements
made in alternate versions of the program, if they receive widespread use,
become available for other developers to incorporate.  Many developers of free
software are heartened and encouraged by the resulting cooperation.  However,
in the case of software used on network servers, this result may fail to come
about.  The GNU General Public License permits making a modified version and
letting the public access it on a server without ever releasing its source
code to the public.

  The GNU Affero General Public License is designed specifically to ensure
that, in such cases, the modified source code becomes available to the
community.  It requires the operator of a network server to provide the source
code of the modified version running there to the users of that server.
Therefore, public use of a modified version, on a publicly accessible server,
gives the public access to the source code of the modified version.

  An older license, called the Affero General Public License and published by
Affero, was designed to accomplish similar goals.  This is a different
license, not a version of the Affero GPL, but Affero has released a new
version of the Affero GPL which permits relicensing under this license.

  The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
follow.

		       TERMS AND CONDITIONS

  0. Definitions.

  "This License" refers to version 3 of the GNU Affero General Public License.

  "Copyright" also means copyright-like laws that apply to other kinds of
works, such as semiconductor masks.

  "The Program" refers to any copyrightable work licensed under this License.
Each licensee is addressed as "you".  "Licensees" and "recipients" may be
individuals or organizations.

  To "modify" a work means to copy from or adapt all or part of the work in a
fashion requiring copyright permission, other than the making of an exact
copy.  The resulting work is called a "modified version" of the earlier work
or a work "based on" the earlier work.

  A "covered work" means either the unmodified Program or a work based on the
Program.

  To "propagate" a work means to do anything with it that, without permission,
would make you directly or secondarily liable for infringement under
applicable copyright law, except executing it on a computer or modifying a
private copy.  Propagation includes copying, distribution (with or without
modification), making available to the public, and in some countries other
activities as well.

  To "convey" a work means any kind of propagation that enables other parties
to make or receive copies.  Mere interaction with a user through a computer
network, with no transfer of a copy, is not conveying.

  An interactive user interface displays "Appropriate Legal Notices" to the
extent that it includes a convenient and prominently visible feature that (1)
displays an appropriate copyright notice, and (2) tells the user that there is
no warranty for the work (except to the extent that warranties are provided),
that licensees may convey the work under this License, and how to view a copy
of this License.  If the interface presents a list of user commands or
options, such as a menu, a prominent item in the list meets this criterion.

  1. Source Code.

  The "source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it.  "Object code" means any non-source form of a work.

  A "Standard Interface" means an interface that either is an official
standard defined by a recognized standards body, or, in the case of interfaces
specified for a particular programming language, one that is widely used among
developers working in that language.

  The "System Libraries" of an executable work include anything, other than
the work as a whole, that (a) is included in the normal form of packaging a
Major Component, but which is not part of that Major Component, and (b) serves
only to enable use of the work with that Major Component, or to implement a
Standard Interface for which an implementation is available to the public in
source code form.  A "Major Component", in this context, means a major
essential component (kernel, window system, and so on) of the specific
operating system (if any) on which the executable work runs, or a compiler
used to produce the work, or an object code interpreter used to run it.

  The "Corresponding Source" for a work in object code form means all the
source code needed to generate, install, and (for an executable work) run the
object code and to modify the work, including scripts to control those
activities.  However, it does not include the work's System Libraries, or
general-purpose tools or generally available free programs which are used
unmodified in performing those activities but which are not part of the work.
For example, Corresponding Source includes interface definition files
associated with source files for the work, and the source code for shared
libraries and dynamically linked subprograms that the work is specifically
designed to require, such as by intimate data communication or control flow
between those subprograms and other parts of the work.

  The Corresponding Source need not include anything that users can regenerate
automatically from other parts of the Corresponding Source.

  The Corresponding Source for a work in source code form is that same work.

  2. Basic Permissions.

  All rights granted under this License are granted for the term of copyright
on the Program, and are irrevocable provided the stated conditions are met.
This License explicitly affirms your unlimited permission to run the
unmodified Program.  The output from running a covered work is covered by this
License only if the output, given its content, constitutes a covered work.
This License acknowledges your rights of fair use or other equivalent, as
provided by copyright law.

  You may make, run and propagate covered works that you do not convey,
without conditions so long as your license otherwise remains in force.  You
may convey covered works to others for the sole purpose of having them make
modifications exclusively for you, or provide you with facilities for running
those works, provided that you comply with the terms of this License in
conveying all material for which you do not control copyright.  Those thus
making or running the covered works for you must do so exclusively on your
behalf, under your direction and control, on terms that prohibit them from
making any copies of your copyrighted material outside their relationship with
you.

  Conveying under any other circumstances is permitted solely under the
conditions stated below.  Sublicensing is not allowed; section 10 makes it
unnecessary.

  3. Protecting Users' Legal Rights From Anti-Circumvention Law.

  No covered work shall be deemed part of an effective technological measure
under any applicable law fulfilling obligations under article 11 of the WIPO
copyright treaty adopted on 20 December 1996, or similar laws prohibiting or
restricting circumvention of such measures.

  When you convey a covered work, you waive any legal power to forbid
circumvention of technological measures to the extent such circumvention is
effected by exercising rights under this License with respect to the covered
work, and you disclaim any intention to limit operation or modification of the
work as a means of enforcing, against the work's users, your or third parties'
legal rights to forbid circumvention of technological measures.

  4. Conveying Verbatim Copies.

  You may convey verbatim copies of the Program's source code as you receive
it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and appropriately publish
on each copy an appropriate copyright notice; keep intact all notices stating
that this License and any non-permissive terms added in accord with section 7
apply to the code; keep intact all notices of the absence of any warranty; and
give all recipients a copy of this License along with the Program.

  You may charge any price or no price for each copy that you convey, and you
may offer support or warranty protection for a fee.

  5. Conveying Modified Source Versions.

  You may convey a work based on the Program, or the modifications to produce
it from the Program, in the form of source code under the terms of section 4,
provided that you also meet all of these conditions:

    a) The work must carry prominent notices stating that you modified it, and
giving a relevant date.

    b) The work must carry prominent notices stating that it is released under
this License and any conditions added under section 7.  This requirement
modifies the requirement in section 4 to "keep intact all notices".

    c) You must license the entire work, as a whole, under this License to
anyone who comes into possession of a copy.  This License will therefore
apply, along with any applicable section 7 additional terms, to the whole of
the work, and all its parts, regardless of how they are packaged.  This
License gives no permission to license the work in any other way, but it does
not invalidate such permission if you have separately received it.

    d) If the work has interactive user interfaces, each must display
Appropriate Legal Notices; however, if the Program has interactive interfaces
that do not display Appropriate Legal Notices, your work need not make them do
so.

  A compilation of a covered work with other separate and independent works,
which are not by their nature extensions of the covered work, and which are
not combined with it such as to form a larger program, in or on a volume of a
storage or distribution medium, is called an "aggregate" if the compilation
and its resulting copyright are not used to limit the access or legal rights
of the compilation's users beyond what the individual works permit.  Inclusion
of a covered work in an aggregate does not cause this License to apply to the
other parts of the aggregate.

  6. Conveying Non-Source Forms.

  You may convey a covered work in object code form under the terms of
sections 4 and 5, provided that you also convey the machine-readable
Corresponding Source under the terms of this License, in one of these ways:

    a) Convey the object code in, or embodied in, a physical product
(including a physical distribution medium), accompanied by the Corresponding
Source fixed on a durable physical medium customarily used for software
interchange.

    b) Convey the object code in, or embodied in, a physical product
(including a physical distribution medium), accompanied by a written offer,
valid for at least three years and valid for as long as you offer spare parts
or customer support for that product model, to give anyone who possesses the
object code either (1) a copy of the Corresponding Source for all the software
in the product that is covered by this License, on a durable physical medium
customarily used for software interchange, for a price no more than your
reasonable cost of physically performing this conveying of source, or (2)
access to copy the Corresponding Source from a network server at no charge.

    c) Convey individual copies of the object code with a copy of the written
offer to provide the Corresponding Source.  This alternative is allowed only
occasionally and noncommercially, and only if you received the object code
with such an offer, in accord with subsection 6b.

    d) Convey the object code by offering access from a designated place
(gratis or for a charge), and offer equivalent access to the Corresponding
Source in the same way through the same place at no further charge.  You need
not require recipients to copy the Corresponding Source along with the object
code.  If the place to copy the object code is a network server, the
Corresponding Source may be on a different server (operated by you or a third
party) that supports equivalent copying facilities, provided you maintain
clear directions next to the object code saying where to find the
Corresponding Source.  Regardless of what server hosts the Corresponding
Source, you remain obligated to ensure that it is available for as long as
needed to satisfy these requirements.

    e) Convey the object code using peer-to-peer transmission, provided you
inform other peers where the object code and Corresponding Source of the work
are being offered to the general public at no charge under subsection 6d.

  A separable portion of the object code, whose source code is excluded from
the Corresponding Source as a System Library, need not be included in
conveying the object code work.

  A "User Product" is either (1) a "consumer product", which means any
tangible personal property which is normally used for personal, family, or
household purposes, or (2) anything designed or sold for incorporation into a
dwelling.  In determining whether a product is a consumer product, doubtful
cases shall be resolved in favor of coverage.  For a particular product
received by a particular user, "normally used" refers to a typical or common
use of that class of product, regardless of the status of the particular user
or of the way in which the particular user actually uses, or expects or is
expected to use, the product.  A product is a consumer product regardless of
whether the product has substantial commercial, industrial or non-consumer
uses, unless such uses represent the only significant mode of use of the
product.

  "Installation Information" for a User Product means any methods, procedures,
authorization keys, or other information required to install and execute
modified versions of a covered work in that User Product from a modified
version of its Corresponding Source.  The information must suffice to ensure
that the continued functioning of the modified object code is in no case
prevented or interfered with solely because modification has been made.

  If you convey an object code work under this section in, or with, or
specifically for use in, a User Product, and the conveying occurs as part of a
transaction in which the right of possession and use of the User Product is
transferred to the recipient in perpetuity or for a fixed term (regardless of
how the transaction is characterized), the Corresponding Source conveyed under
this section must be accompanied by the Installation Information.  But this
requirement does not apply if neither you nor any third party retains the
ability to install modified object code on the User Product (for example, the
work has been installed in ROM).

  The requirement to provide Installation Information does not include a
requirement to continue to provide support service, warranty, or updates for a
work that has been modified or installed by the recipient, or for the User
Product in which it has been modified or installed.  Access to a network may
be denied when the modification itself materially and adversely affects the
operation of the network or violates the rules and protocols for communication
across the network.

  Corresponding Source conveyed, and Installation Information provided, in
accord with this section must be in a format that is publicly documented (and
with an implementation available to the public in source code form), and must
require no special password or key for unpacking, reading or copying.

  7. Additional Terms.

  "Additional permissions" are terms that supplement the terms of this License
by making exceptions from one or more of its conditions.  Additional
permissions that are applicable to the entire Program shall be treated as
though they were included in this License, to the extent that they are valid
under applicable law.  If additional permissions apply only to part of the
Program, that part may be used separately under those permissions, but the
entire Program remains governed by this License without regard to the
additional permissions.

  When you convey a copy of a covered work, you may at your option remove any
additional permissions from that copy, or from any part of it.  (Additional
permissions may be written to require their own removal in certain cases when
you modify the work.)  You may place additional permissions on material, added
by you to a covered work, for which you have or can give appropriate copyright
permission.

  Notwithstanding any other provision of this License, for material you add to
a covered work, you may (if authorized by the copyright holders of that
material) supplement the terms of this License with terms:

    a) Disclaiming warranty or limiting liability differently from the terms
of sections 15 and 16 of this License; or

    b) Requiring preservation of specified reasonable legal notices or author
attributions in that material or in the Appropriate Legal Notices displayed by
works containing it; or

    c) Prohibiting misrepresentation of the origin of that material, or
requiring that modified versions of such material be marked in reasonable ways
as different from the original version; or

    d) Limiting the use for publicity purposes of names of licensors or
authors of the material; or

    e) Declining to grant rights under trademark law for use of some trade
names, trademarks, or service marks; or

    f) Requiring indemnification of licensors and authors of that material by
anyone who conveys the material (or modified versions of it) with contractual
assumptions of liability to the recipient, for any liability that these
contractual assumptions directly impose on those licensors and authors.

  All other non-permissive additional terms are considered "further
restrictions" within the meaning of section 10.  If the Program as you
received it, or any part of it, contains a notice stating that it is governed
by this License along with a term that is a further restriction, you may
remove that term.  If a license document contains a further restriction but
permits relicensing or conveying under this License, you may add to a covered
work material governed by the terms of that license document, provided that
the further restriction does not survive such relicensing or conveying.

  If you add terms to a covered work in accord with this section, you must
place, in the relevant source files, a statement of the additional terms that
apply to those files, or a notice indicating where to find the applicable
terms.

  Additional terms, permissive or non-permissive, may be stated in the form of
a separately written license, or stated as exceptions; the above requirements
apply either way.

  8. Termination.

  You may not propagate or modify a covered work except as expressly provided
under this License.  Any attempt otherwise to propagate or modify it is void,
and will automatically terminate your rights under this License (including any
patent licenses granted under the third paragraph of section 11).

  However, if you cease all violation of this License, then your license from
a particular copyright holder is reinstated (a) provisionally, unless and
until the copyright holder explicitly and finally terminates your license, and
(b) permanently, if the copyright holder fails to notify you of the violation
by some reasonable means prior to 60 days after the cessation.

  Moreover, your license from a particular copyright holder is reinstated
permanently if the copyright holder notifies you of the violation by some
reasonable means, this is the first time you have received notice of violation
of this License (for any work) from that copyright holder, and you cure the
violation prior to 30 days after your receipt of the notice.

  Termination of your rights under this section does not terminate the
licenses of parties who have received copies or rights from you under this
License.  If your rights have been terminated and not permanently reinstated,
you do not qualify to receive new licenses for the same material under section
10.

  9. Acceptance Not Required for Having Copies.

  You are not required to accept this License in order to receive or run a
copy of the Program.  Ancillary propagation of a covered work occurring solely
as a consequence of using peer-to-peer transmission to receive a copy likewise
does not require acceptance.  However, nothing other than this License grants
you permission to propagate or modify any covered work.  These actions
infringe copyright if you do not accept this License.  Therefore, by modifying
or propagating a covered work, you indicate your acceptance of this License to
do so.

  10. Automatic Licensing of Downstream Recipients.

  Each time you convey a covered work, the recipient automatically receives a
license from the original licensors, to run, modify and propagate that work,
subject to this License.  You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by
third parties with this License.

  An "entity transaction" is a transaction transferring control of an
organization, or substantially all assets of one, or subdividing an
organization, or merging organizations.  If propagation of a covered work
results from an entity transaction, each party to that transaction who
receives a copy of the work also receives whatever licenses to the work the
party's predecessor in interest had or could give under the previous
paragraph, plus a right to possession of the Corresponding Source of the work
from the predecessor in interest, if the predecessor has it or can get it with
reasonable efforts.

  You may not impose any further restrictions on the exercise of the rights
granted or affirmed under this License.  For example, you may not impose a
license fee, royalty, or other charge for exercise of rights granted under
this License, and you may not initiate litigation (including a cross-claim or
counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that any patent claim is infringed by
making, using, selling, offering for sale, or importing the Program or any
portion of it.

  11. Patents.

  A "contributor" is a copyright holder who authorizes use under this License
of the Program or a work on which the Program is based.  The work thus
licensed is called the contributor's "contributor version".

  A contributor's "essential patent claims" are all patent claims owned or
controlled by the contributor, whether already acquired or hereafter acquired,
that would be infringed by some manner, permitted by this License, of making,
using, or selling its contributor version, but do not include claims that
would be infringed only as a consequence of further modification of the
contributor version.  For purposes of this definition, "control" includes the
right to grant patent sublicenses in a manner consistent with the requirements
of this License.

  Each contributor grants you a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free patent
license under the contributor's essential patent claims, to make, use, sell,
offer for sale, import and otherwise run, modify and propagate the contents of
its contributor version.

  In the following three paragraphs, a "patent license" is any express
agreement or commitment, however denominated, not to enforce a patent (such as
an express permission to practice a patent or covenant not to sue for patent
infringement).  To "grant" such a patent license to a party means to make such
an agreement or commitment not to enforce a patent against the party.

  If you convey a covered work, knowingly relying on a patent license, and the
Corresponding Source of the work is not available for anyone to copy, free of
charge and under the terms of this License, through a publicly available
network server or other readily accessible means, then you must either (1)
cause the Corresponding Source to be so available, or (2) arrange to deprive
yourself of the benefit of the patent license for this particular work, or (3)
arrange, in a manner consistent with the requirements of this License, to
extend the patent license to downstream recipients.  "Knowingly relying" means
you have actual knowledge that, but for the patent license, your conveying the
covered work in a country, or your recipient's use of the covered work in a
country, would infringe one or more identifiable patents in that country that
you have reason to believe are valid.

  If, pursuant to or in connection with a single transaction or arrangement,
you convey, or propagate by procuring conveyance of, a covered work, and grant
a patent license to some of the parties receiving the covered work authorizing
them to use, propagate, modify or convey a specific copy of the covered work,
then the patent license you grant is automatically extended to all recipients
of the covered work and works based on it.

  A patent license is "discriminatory" if it does not include within the scope
of its coverage, prohibits the exercise of, or is conditioned on the
non-exercise of one or more of the rights that are specifically granted under
this License.  You may not convey a covered work if you are a party to an
arrangement with a third party that is in the business of distributing
software, under which you make payment to the third party based on the extent
of your activity of conveying the work, and under which the third party
grants, to any of the parties who would receive the covered work from you, a
discriminatory patent license (a) in connection with copies of the covered
work conveyed by you (or copies made from those copies), or (b) primarily for
and in connection with specific products or compilations that contain the
covered work, unless you entered into that arrangement, or that patent license
was granted, prior to 28 March 2007.

  Nothing in this License shall be construed as excluding or limiting any
implied license or other defenses to infringement that may otherwise be
available to you under applicable patent law.

  12. No Surrender of Others' Freedom.

  If conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or
otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not excuse
you from the conditions of this License.  If you cannot convey a covered work
so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this License and any
other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you may not convey it at
all.  For example, if you agree to terms that obligate you to collect a
royalty for further conveying from those to whom you convey the Program, the
only way you could satisfy both those terms and this License would be to
refrain entirely from conveying the Program.

  13. Remote Network Interaction; Use with the GNU General Public License.

  Notwithstanding any other provision of this License, if you modify the
Program, your modified version must prominently offer all users interacting
with it remotely through a computer network (if your version supports such
interaction) an opportunity to receive the Corresponding Source of your
version by providing access to the Corresponding Source from a network server
at no charge, through some standard or customary means of facilitating copying
of software.  This Corresponding Source shall include the Corresponding Source
for any work covered by version 3 of the GNU General Public License that is
incorporated pursuant to the following paragraph.

  Notwithstanding any other provision of this License, you have permission to
link or combine any covered work with a work licensed under version 3 of the
GNU General Public License into a single combined work, and to convey the
resulting work.  The terms of this License will continue to apply to the part
which is the covered work, but the work with which it is combined will remain
governed by version 3 of the GNU General Public License.

  14. Revised Versions of this License.

  The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of the
GNU Affero General Public License from time to time.  Such new versions will
be similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to
address new problems or concerns.

  Each version is given a distinguishing version number.  If the Program
specifies that a certain numbered version of the GNU Affero General Public
License "or any later version" applies to it, you have the option of following
the terms and conditions either of that numbered version or of any later
version published by the Free Software Foundation.  If the Program does not
specify a version number of the GNU Affero General Public License, you may
choose any version ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

  If the Program specifies that a proxy can decide which future versions of
the GNU Affero General Public License can be used, that proxy's public
statement of acceptance of a version permanently authorizes you to choose that
version for the Program.

  Later license versions may give you additional or different permissions.
However, no additional obligations are imposed on any author or copyright
holder as a result of your choosing to follow a later version.

  15. Disclaimer of Warranty.

  THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE
LAW.  EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR
OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE PROGRAM "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO
THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE PROGRAM IS WITH YOU.  SHOULD THE PROGRAM
PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR
CORRECTION.

  16. Limitation of Liability.

  IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING WILL
ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MODIFIES AND/OR CONVEYS THE
PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY
GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE
OR INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR
DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR
A FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH
HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

  17. Interpretation of Sections 15 and 16.

  If the disclaimer of warranty and limitation of liability provided above
cannot be given local legal effect according to their terms, reviewing courts
shall apply local law that most closely approximates an absolute waiver of all
civil liability in connection with the Program, unless a warranty or
assumption of liability accompanies a copy of the Program in return for a fee.

		     END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

	    How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

  If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest possible
use to the public, the best way to achieve this is to make it free software
which everyone can redistribute and change under these terms.

  To do so, attach the following notices to the program.  It is safest to
attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively state the
exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least the "copyright" line
and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

    <one line to give the program's name and a brief idea of what it does.>
Copyright (C) <year>  <name of author>

    This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.

    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU Affero General Public License
for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

  If your software can interact with users remotely through a computer
network, you should also make sure that it provides a way for users to get its
source.  For example, if your program is a web application, its interface
could display a "Source" link that leads users to an archive of the code.
There are many ways you could offer source, and different solutions will be
better for different programs; see section 13 for the specific requirements.

  You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or school,
if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if necessary. For
more information on this, and how to apply and follow the GNU AGPL, see
<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

-------------- SECTION 11: GNU General Public License, V1.0 ------------- GNU
GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE Version 1, February 1989

Copyright (C) 1989 Free Software Foundation, Inc.  51 Franklin St, Fifth
Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.

			    Preamble

  The license agreements of most software companies try to keep users at the
mercy of those companies.  By contrast, our General Public License is intended
to guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to make sure the
software is free for all its users.  The General Public License applies to the
Free Software Foundation's software and to any other program whose authors
commit to using it.  You can use it for your programs, too.

  When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not price.
Specifically, the General Public License is designed to make sure that you
have the freedom to give away or sell copies of free software, that you
receive source code or can get it if you want it, that you can change the
software or use pieces of it in new free programs; and that you know you can
do these things.

  To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid anyone to
deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights.  These
restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you if you distribute
copies of the software, or if you modify it.

  For example, if you distribute copies of a such a program, whether gratis or
for a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that you have.  You
must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code.  And you
must tell them their rights.

  We protect your rights with two steps: (1) copyright the software, and (2)
offer you this license which gives you legal permission to copy, distribute
and/or modify the software.

  Also, for each author's protection and ours, we want to make certain that
everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free software.  If the
software is modified by someone else and passed on, we want its recipients to
know that what they have is not the original, so that any problems introduced
by others will not reflect on the original authors' reputations.

  The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
follow.

		    GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR
COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

  0. This License Agreement applies to any program or other work which
contains a notice placed by the copyright holder saying it may be distributed
under the terms of this General Public License.  The "Program", below, refers
to any such program or work, and a "work based on the Program" means either
the Program or any work containing the Program or a portion of it, either
verbatim or with modifications.  Each licensee is addressed as "you".

  1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Program's source code
as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and
appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice and
disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the notices that refer to this General
Public License and to the absence of any warranty; and give any other
recipients of the Program a copy of this General Public License along with the
Program.  You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy.

  2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Program or any portion of it,
and copy and distribute such modifications under the terms of Paragraph 1
above, provided that you also do the following:

a) cause the modified files to carry prominent notices stating that you
changed the files and the date of any change; and

b) cause the whole of any work that you distribute or publish, that in whole
or in part contains the Program or any part thereof, either with or without
modifications, to be licensed at no charge to all third parties under the
terms of this General Public License (except that you may choose to grant
warranty protection to some or all third parties, at your option).

c) If the modified program normally reads commands interactively when run, you
must cause it, when started running for such interactive use in the simplest
and most usual way, to print or display an announcement including an
appropriate copyright notice and a notice that there is no warranty (or else,
saying that you provide a warranty) and that users may redistribute the
program under these conditions, and telling the user how to view a copy of
this General Public License.

d) You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and you
may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

Mere aggregation of another independent work with the Program (or its
derivative) on a volume of a storage or distribution medium does not bring the
other work under the scope of these terms.

  3. You may copy and distribute the Program (or a portion or derivative of
it, under Paragraph 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of
Paragraphs 1 and 2 above provided that you also do one of the following:

a) accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable source code,
which must be distributed under the terms of Paragraphs 1 and 2 above; or,

b) accompany it with a written offer, valid for at least three years, to give
any third party free (except for a nominal charge for the cost of
distribution) a complete machine-readable copy of the corresponding source
code, to be distributed under the terms of Paragraphs 1 and 2 above; or,

c) accompany it with the information you received as to where the
corresponding source code may be obtained.  (This alternative is allowed only
for noncommercial distribution and only if you received the program in object
code or executable form alone.)

Source code for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it.  For an executable file, complete source code means all
the source code for all modules it contains; but, as a special exception, it
need not include source code for modules which are standard libraries that
accompany the operating system on which the executable file runs, or for
standard header files or definitions files that accompany that operating
system.

  4. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, distribute or transfer the Program
except as expressly provided under this General Public License.  Any attempt
otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense, distribute or transfer the Program is
void, and will automatically terminate your rights to use the Program under
this License.  However, parties who have received copies, or rights to use
copies, from you under this General Public License will not have their
licenses terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.

  5. By copying, distributing or modifying the Program (or any work based on
the Program) you indicate your acceptance of this license to do so, and all
its terms and conditions.

  6. Each time you redistribute the Program (or any work based on the
Program), the recipient automatically receives a license from the original
licensor to copy, distribute or modify the Program subject to these terms and
conditions.  You may not impose any further restrictions on the recipients'
exercise of the rights granted herein.

  7. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of
the General Public License from time to time.  Such new versions will be
similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address
new problems or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number.  If the Program
specifies a version number of the license which applies to it and "any later
version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of
that version or of any later version published by the Free Software
Foundation.  If the Program does not specify a version number of the license,
you may choose any version ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

  8. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Program into other free programs
whose distribution conditions are different, write to the author to ask for
permission.  For software which is copyrighted by the Free Software
Foundation, write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make
exceptions for this.  Our decision will be guided by the two goals of
preserving the free status of all derivatives of our free software and of
promoting the sharing and reuse of software generally.

			    NO WARRANTY

  9. BECAUSE THE PROGRAM IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR
THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.  EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE
STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE
PROGRAM "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND
PERFORMANCE OF THE PROGRAM IS WITH YOU.  SHOULD THE PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE,
YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

  10. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR
REDISTRIBUTE THE PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES,
INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING
OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR
THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER PROGRAMS),
EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGES.

		     END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

	Appendix: How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

  If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest possible
use to humanity, the best way to achieve this is to make it free software
which everyone can redistribute and change under these terms.

  To do so, attach the following notices to the program.  It is safest to
attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively convey the
exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least the "copyright" line
and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

    <one line to give the program's name and a brief idea of what it does.>
Copyright (C) 19yy  <name of author>

    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 1, or (at your option) any later version.

    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51
Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston MA  02110- 1301 USA.

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

If the program is interactive, make it output a short notice like this when it
starts in an interactive mode:

    Gnomovision version 69, Copyright (C) 19xx name of author Gnomovision
comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type `show w'.  This is free
software, and you are welcome to redistribute it under certain conditions;
type `show c' for details.

The hypothetical commands `show w' and `show c' should show the appropriate
parts of the General Public License.  Of course, the commands you use may be
called something other than `show w' and `show c'; they could even be
mouse-clicks or menu items--whatever suits your program.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your
school, if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if
necessary.  Here a sample; alter the names:

  Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the program
`Gnomovision' (a program to direct compilers to make passes at assemblers)
written by James Hacker.

  <signature of Ty Coon>, 1 April 1989 Ty Coon, President of Vice

That's all there is to it!


=====================================================================

To the extent any open source components are licensed under the GPL and/or
LGPL, or other similar licenses that require the source code and/or
modifications to source code to be made available, you may obtain a copy of
the source code corresponding to the binaries for such open source components
and modifications thereto, if any, (the "Source Files"), by downloading the
Source Files from VMware's github site, or by sending a request, with your
name and address to: VMware, Inc., 3401 Hillview Avenue, Palo Alto, CA 94304,
United States of America. All such requests should clearly specify:  OPEN
SOURCE FILES REQUEST, Attention General Counsel. VMware shall mail a copy of
the Source Files to you on a CD or equivalent physical medium.  This offer to
obtain a copy of the Source Files is valid for three years from the date you
acquired this software product.

[VIC070TPAH100616]
