tests/test-cases/Group1-Docker-Commands/1-12-Docker-RMI.md, before:

Test 1-12 - Docker RMI
=======

# Purpose:
To verify that docker rmi command is supported by VIC appliance

# References:
[1 - Docker Command Line Reference](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/rmi/)

# Environment:
This test requires that a vSphere server is running and available

# Test Steps:
1. Deploy VIC appliance to vSphere server
2. Issue docker pull busybox to the VIC appliance
3. Issue docker rmi busybox to the VIC appliance
4. Issue docker pull busybox to the VIC appliance
5. Issue docker create busybox /bin/top to the VIC appliance
6. Issue docker rm <containerID> to the VIC appliance
7. Issue docker rmi busybox to the VIC appliance
8. Issue docker pull busybox to the VIC appliance
9. Issue docker create busybox /bin/top to the VIC appliance
10. Issue docker rmi busybox to the VIC appliance
11. Issue docker rmi -f busybox to the VIC appliance
12. Issue docker rmi fakeImage to the VIC appliance
13. Issue a docker pull by digest
14. Issue a docker rmi by digest

# Expected Outcome:
* Step 3 and 7 should result in success and the image should be removed from inventory
* Step 10 should result in failure and the error message below:  
```
Failed to remove image (busybox): Error response from daemon: conflict: unable to remove repository reference "busybox" (must force) - container 6a26c7deb9b7 is using its referenced image 47bcc53f74dc
```
* Step 11 should result in success and the image should be removed from inventory
* Step 12 should result in an error with the following message:  
```
Failed to remove image (fakeImage): Error response from daemon: No such image: fakeImage:latest
```
* Steps 13-14 should result in success and the output of step 14 should contain the digest of the rmi'd image

# Possible Problems:
None

Commit message:

Fix persona image cache init upon VCH restart
This commit fixes the initialization logic of the docker personality's
image cache. Before this change, images pulled before a VCH restart
would fail to be removed later by their short ID (their long ID would
work). This was because when the personality server was restarted, the
ID index in the image cache was populated with the incorrect key format.

When an image is pulled, the ID index in the image cache is keyed by the
full ID of the image, while the name cache is keyed by the full ID
prefixed with "sha256:". In the cache init logic, the ID index was
previously populated with the name cache's keys, and this would cause
image lookups (docker rmi, inspect) to fail when the image's short ID
was used.

To fix this issue, this change trims the "sha256:" prefix from the name
cache's keys before using them as keys for the ID index.

Fixes #6076, #7118

tests/test-cases/Group1-Docker-Commands/1-12-Docker-RMI.md, after:

Test 1-12 - Docker RMI
=======

# Purpose:
To verify that docker rmi command is supported by VIC appliance

# References:
[1 - Docker Command Line Reference](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/rmi/)

# Environment:
This test requires that a vSphere server is running and available

# Test Steps:
1. Deploy VIC appliance to vSphere server
2. Issue docker pull busybox to the VIC appliance
3. Issue docker rmi busybox to the VIC appliance
4. Issue docker pull busybox to the VIC appliance
5. Issue docker create busybox /bin/top to the VIC appliance
6. Issue docker rm <containerID> to the VIC appliance
7. Issue docker rmi busybox to the VIC appliance
8. Issue docker pull busybox to the VIC appliance
9. Issue docker create busybox /bin/top to the VIC appliance
10. Issue docker rmi busybox to the VIC appliance
11. Issue docker rmi -f busybox to the VIC appliance
12. Issue docker rmi fakeImage to the VIC appliance
13. Issue a docker pull by digest
14. Issue a docker rmi by digest
15. Issue docker pull for busybox and alpine
16. Reboot the VCH and wait for it to initialize
17. Obtain the image short ID for busybox
18. Issue docker rmi using the short ID for busybox
19. Obtain the image long ID for alpine
20. Issue docker rmi using the long ID for alpine

# Expected Outcome:
* Step 3 and 7 should result in success and the image should be removed from inventory
* Step 10 should result in failure and the error message below:  
```
Failed to remove image (busybox): Error response from daemon: conflict: unable to remove repository reference "busybox" (must force) - container 6a26c7deb9b7 is using its referenced image 47bcc53f74dc
```
* Step 11 should result in success and the image should be removed from inventory
* Step 12 should result in an error with the following message:  
```
Failed to remove image (fakeImage): Error response from daemon: No such image: fakeImage:latest
```
* Steps 13-14 should result in success and the output of step 14 should contain the digest of the rmi'd image
* Steps 15-20 should succeed

# Possible Problems:
None
