doc/design/volumes/ContainerCreateWithVolumes.md, before:


# Container Create w/ Volumes


### Docker Personality

Changes to this portion will involve interacting with the new planned changes to the portlayer.

    It will involve determining whether a volume exists or needs to be created and then asking the portlayer to perform a join operationon the obtained volume. The changes here will mainly be looking for the new inputs to the `docker create` command that we want to support. This call is really managing and informing a call to the VolumeCreate call in the case of anonymous volume creation, if the volume already exists then a previous `VolumeCreate` can be assumed and only a joing will be necessary after fetching the existing volume's data. 

examples:

```
docker create -v "/mnt/pnt:<some basic opts>"

and 

docker create -v "name:/mnt/pnt:<some basic opts>"
```

    We will need to look at and do some validation on the two new potential inputs. One thing to not is that calls based on this method of volume creation means that if the volume does not exist it will be created on the default datastore specified by the vic-machine. Additionally, We will have to have a default size for the volume driver args when an anonymous volume is specified possibly at VCH deployment time. see https://github.com/vmware/vic/pull/1152 for additional discussion on this.
    The anonymous volume usage will be required to use both the default Capacity and default VolumeStore since docker cli does not support passing more args into the container create call. If either of these defaults are not set then anonymous volumes by definition will not be permitted.
    
#### Inputs

+ **mount path** is the destination of where the vdmk will be mounted inside the container. _This is required_ if it is the only value set the user is specifying an anonymous volume and we must generate our own name for the volume and populate that in the volume metadata. 


+ **name** is the value that will be listed a as the name of the volume and the md5 sum of this name will be used as the label for the block device and the target of the mount(portlayer join operation). If this is specified it must be validated. Additionally, we should look out for an already exists error. 

+ **general args** are as follows [rw|ro], [z|Z], [[r]shared|[r]slave|[r]private], and [nocopy]. These should be parsed and placed into the DriverArgs that are specified to the portlayer. right now we only support rw/ro. __TODO__ we do want to research the [no copy] option.


__NOTE:__ : in MountPoint for the volume metadata(docker perspective) we need to include something that says "Mountpoint is a block device" or something along those lines.


### Join call for attaching a volume to a vm

This call, which will be implemented in the volume portion of the storage layer within the portlayer srever, will involve a config spec change. The three things needed for this call are the handle to the container, a filled volume struct, and the driver options for the device addition(such as rw/ro). We will add a value to the extraconfig->executorConfig which will append a new Mountspec for the device to be mounted. The Op type will be an "Add"


```
[]DeviceChange{
    op:Add,
    state(?):exists,
    VirtualDevice{
    file:<vmdkPath->(should come from volume struct)>
    }
}

[]Extraconfig.append{
    executorConfig:
        label:<generated on creation, should be md5 sum>
        MountPoint:<where to mount the vmdk in the container>
}

```

The function signature should look as such

```
func (v *VolumeStore) Join(container_handle *Handle, volume *Volume, diskOpts map[string]string)
```

this will be added to a new file called vm.go as part of the vsphere package under the storage layer code in the Portlayer.

Commit message:

Update design/architecture documentation for Volumes on VIC (#5179)

doc/design/volumes/ContainerCreateWithVolumes.md, after:


### Docker Personality

The docker personality needed no changes to support nfs volumes. This was due to our Volume Store architecture. Adding a new type of Volume Store still appears as a volumestore to the docker personality. In the future we are planning to distinguish between volume types by customizing our `driver` field. e.g. `vsphere-vmdk` and `vsphere-nfs`. 

This will change the way the personality operates, changes will need to be made on how we identify the volume store in order to know which kind of driver we need to return on ls. Driver can also be specified at volume creation time and it is very possible that we will require users to know which volume store is of which driver type. In order to facilitate this we should modify the output of `docker info` to list not only the available volume stores, but also the drivers associated with each store. Alternatively/additionally we can coax which type of driver belongs to a store programatically, this will require some work in the portlayer and docker around fetching a store by name and determining it's type. 

In the future some mount options like `squashfs`, `sync`, and `retries` may be desired as configuration options at volume creation time. If this is the case work will need to be done on the personality to parse the additional `driver arguments`. Naturally, the portlayer will also need some additional argument parsing logic to facilitate communicating these options to the tether at mount/run time. 

This will also require us to keep a basic set of options for anonymous volumes. At create time users can actually specify several options after the ending `:` character, some investigation will be needed as to how we can use this. The basic options can be used when nothing is specified at the end of the `-v` option on create. We also have a hard coded default capacity for anonymous volumes as this cannot be specified from the docker cli. In the future we should make this configurable at vic-machine create time, [Ticket Reference](https://github.com/vmware/vic/issues/5172). 

examples:

```

docker create -v "/mnt/pnt:<some basic opts>"

and 

docker create -v "<name>:/mnt/pnt:<some basic opts>"

```

Note: Most importantly from a vic-machine standpoint, A `default` store __must__ be tagged at vic-machine create time for anonymous volumes to be supported in a deployment. Without one any anonymous volume creation requests will be rejected and an error will be returned to the user.
    
#### Inputs

+ **mount path** is the destination of where the vdmk will be mounted inside the container. _This is required_ if it is the only value set the user is specifying an anonymous volume and we  generate a UUID as the name for the volume and this UUID is propagated to the volume metadata. 


+ **name** is the value that will be listed a as the name of the volume and the md5 sum of this name will be used as the label for the block device and the target of the mount(portlayer join operation). If this is specified it must be validated. The name is also used to namespace volumes within their respective volumestores. Because of this there is currently and issue out for having a VCH which ends up with two volumes having the same name, [Ticket with information](https://github.com/vmware/vic/issues/5173)

+ **general args** are as follows [rw|ro], [z|Z], [[r]shared|[r]slave|[r]private], and [nocopy]. These should be parsed and placed into the DriverArgs that are specified to the portlayer. right now we only support rw/ro. __TODO__ we do want to research the [nocopy] option. Theses could possibly change in the future for our support depending on how we want to manage other types of volumes beside block based. 


__NOTE:__ : in MountPoint for the volume metadata(docker perspective) we need to include something that says "Mountpoint is a block device" or something along those lines.


### Join call for attaching a volume to a vm

This call, which will be implemented in the volume portion of the storage layer within the portlayer srever, will involve a config spec change. The three things needed for this call are the handle to the container, a filled volume struct, and the driver options for the device addition(such as rw/ro). We will add a value to the extraconfig->executorConfig which will append a new Mountspec for the device to be mounted. The Op type will be an "Add"

```
[]DeviceChange{
    op:Add,
    state(?):exists,
    VirtualDevice{
    file:<vmdkPath->(should come from volume struct)>
    }
}

[]Extraconfig.append{
    executorConfig:
        label:<generated on creation, should be md5 sum>
        MountPoint:<where to mount the vmdk in the container>
}

```

The function signature should look as such

```
func (v *VolumeStore) Join(container_handle *Handle, volume *Volume, diskOpts map[string]string)
```

this will be added to a new file called vm.go as part of the vsphere package under the storage layer code in the Portlayer.

__NOTE__ : there are now two implementations for volume join: an [NFS implementation](https://github.com/vmware/vic/blob/master/lib/portlayer/storage/nfs/vm.go#L42-L57) and a [VMDK implementation](https://github.com/vmware/vic/blob/master/lib/portlayer/storage/vsphere/vm.go#L28-L48)
